A backward look is fraught with danger;a ball here, there a children's party;a ball in Petersburg; but funA ball: the joy of every guest!Abandon hope for evermore.a bit provincial and affected,a blank default would suit me better.a blessing from its blasts and rages,a block of snow will slip and tumble.a book of household calculations,about one thing, till our next meeting.about them -- nineteen to the dozen --about what's buried in the past:above a stream the moon had lighted.above the dust of his remainsabove the water started tracinga brook flows through a grove of lime.absorbed me in the recollectiona calculation past despising --a carving-knife -- and in the tangleaccounts, shaved forelocks, Sunday bath;accounts were done, a winter outinga cheerful glimmer on the snowa classicist, he'll not allowa corpse on boards was all he found,a country house -- and one who stilla crayfish rides on spider-back;across each bush, across each steep,across green meadows, dilly-dally,across our snows of northern bleaknessacross the Baltic in exchangeacross the drift-encumbered acres,across the fields, round hill and rock;across the plain's enormous room,across the public's toes; he steersacross the stage; he yawns: Ballet --across the years to our own time.across to her consort a wearyactive, and hopeful, and insistent:Actress in tragedy.acute and subtle -- in a wordaddressed to Onegin... ...'Well, that's easy.addressed to Tanya, certain versesadd vale when he signed a letter;a deathless murmur from within,a deft arrangement to his hair,A  deliberate  accumulation of  conventional poetical  formulae bya different mask? is he becomingadmires the tumult and the pressing,a dog with horns, a goatee'd witch,adore the love that comes in dream.adorned the sanctum of our sage.adorning all its country ways.adorns Aunt Helen, the princess;a dream's mute monument, reflectiona dumb moon, on a dumb horizon.advantages of heart and brain,advises him of dinner-time.a dwarf with tail, and a half-strain,a far-flung traveller who was creakinga fashion-plate for illustrators,a faster, stronger pulsing start.a few books had escaped disgrace:affected pose -- and an unspeakinga fisher's fire. Through country gleaminga flimsy bridge whose every quakea flood on which no frosty banda foe -- our mood should be warm-hearted.a fop, a punter on the cards,a free romance's far horizon,a frequent question: tell me whoa friend of yours in his first youthAfter a fine career, his fatherafter her own room, makes her fret.after Saint Chariton's gone pastafter that, supper's served, and soafter the martyr's price it paid,after two minutes, off again,after your drive, it's quite back-breaking;a full confession of the heart.a furious, boiling, heaving mainagain I see your soulful flight?against each other swift, small feet.against the tea's excessive sweetness,aged Derzhávin saw and blessed usa general of majestic bearingages we'd never heard of love:a girl or two, without a smilea glossary of smart argot...a grain of gladness; tears' repressiona grammar, a digest of fable,a great attraction to conversing.Agree, the way Eugene proceededa grey-haired, perfumed exquisite,a grizzled Calmuck stands to meet them,a group of monsters round a table,a gulf has gaped... Says Tanya: IAh, all that my Onegin knew...a haze in me, but I grew usedAhead of them a pinewood slumbersa hermit's life -- he'd be proceedingAh, gently, gently, easy goes --Ah, he had loved a love that nevera hidden beauty in the end:a hideous deal of tribulation.a house, a village, and a woodAh, Tanya, come to me, it seemsa humble cross, in woodland gloom,A humble sinner, Dimitry Larin,a hundred times afresh distorted;a hybrid cross of cat and crane.a joker in the old tradition,a joking flirt, or both together,Akulka the onetime Selina,a lady -- what a grim discussion! --a Lancer -- how she deified him!a Lancer wooed and won her hand,alarmed by my melodious lay,Alas, Eugene beyond all queryAlas for him! there was no keepingAlas, it's not so hard to guess!Alas, on pleasure's wild varietyAlas, our youth was what we made it,Alas! the generations must,(alas, too salted); now they're bringingalbum and stays, Princess Alina,a liar still, Lyubóv Petrovna,a life-creating voice was lost;all a pure maiden's love was breathing.All are dumbfounded. Lensky shiesall blend into Eugene alone.all brought to life at your direction.all day, all night, his presence fills her,all egoistical and dry,All flourishing; they send their duty.all for our tender dreamy maidenall in a blaze, I said: it's he!All in good time, on each point IAll Lensky's thoughts went hurly-burly,all modish foes dread worldly shame.all of an emptiness so killing -- >all others with a waistcoat's setallow no rest to you or me;allows her hand, that's lost all feeling,allows no comfort to come through --all plunged his soul deep in the streamall point at her, and all combineAll right, I'll come then... What a friend!All right, you want the resurrectionall shout and argue, laugh and squeak.All sleep: from the saloon a roaringall sorts of hopeless appetites;all stand. He walks towards the door.all's well; the destined hour at lastall that today we find absurd.all these are charming! but to putall this, at eighteen years of age,All this has now gone out of fashion,all was material for transcribing:All who behold him find him strange.almanacs, journals of reflection,almost as good as a dim lamp.alone across the fields of space,Alone amid all his possessions,alone, and sunk in calculation,alone with him; Onegin takes heralone, with no adornment on;Along the fronts of darkened houses,along the Neva in a sleigh,along the street lies dirty snow;along the street where slumber drowses,along Tverskaya Street alreadyAlready borne down by regret,already high in treason's league!Already, in exultant fashion,Already now the talk was thrivingAlready Olga's hand was grippingalready she'd assume ill-luck.already silvering all the plain...already stirred him as they should.already studying to intrigue,already tends too much to smilealready there she stands beside him;already yawned before the show,although it's nearly heard the knell,although one in no manner sharesalthough there are no streets, no cards,always before the volume endedalways comes back: I'll not be wedded.always contented with his life,always monotonously gay,Always our fervid hero tendeda lyre, and on it perched, a dove --a madrigal for epitaph.am always glad to write, it's true,a mansion stands just round a turning.A man who's active and incisivea marksman crouching in the green.a masculine disguise to aidamateur of caprice and quirk.amazement: Where's your second gone?ambassador? In some surpriseam doomed to perish, yet to dieAmidst the hills, down in that valley,amidst the howling and the blastamid the deadening joys of fashion,am I estranged, does all that cheers,a mild rebuke was his worst mark,A mocking  reference to Mikhail  Muraviev's poem To the Goddess ofa modish second-hand edition,a modish taste, a dowdy touch --A moment earlier, inspirationamong my friends, in all that crowdamongst devout coquettes, appallingamongst the crafty and small-minded,< amongst the soulless men of pride,among the guests a general dinning:among the guests she recognizedamong the maidens and the wives,among the neighbours round about.a monster of the gens Satanic,a Muscovite in Harold's dress,amusing, flattering with the best,an ace a dozen yards away;an album's loose and floating sheaves.a nation's wealth is, what augments it,(an attribute that's quite vexatious,ancestral portraits met the viewand act the humble or imperious,and after jealousy's grim weatherAnd all grandmothers who are listeningand all into the salon squeeze,and all is lost beyond retrieving;and all our fresh imagination,and all our modish education;and all their ravishing inventionand all the neighbours planned a matchAnd all the while the moon was shiningand all the works of Fontanelle --and all the world is buried deep.and all this flashy masquerading,and almost swoons, and almost dies.and also prettier, I'll be bound,and although Troy's greybeards, collectedand always the inspired regard --and always the self-same objection;and ananas, the gold of trees.and an insouciant lorgnette.and, any moment, down he'll slip.and arm in arm they all go through;and as in some appalling dreamand, as observer, to be presentand, as the years went by, who dulyand at the altar, with a crown,and at the very self-same timeand autumn lingered, long and slow;and band already tired of blowing,and beat a nacreous wing when caughtand bedbug that infest the stagesand been as happy... as I could!and bending deeply down to greet herand blesses the unrivalled brandand bliss for him is when he hotlyand blood had bubbled as it flowed;and brains, and an attractive face.and brandishes her tinsel splendourand bred upon the Neva's brink,and breeding ducks and geese as well,and by Repentance. All this lends,and by the sound of silly joys.and captive girls, by Salgir lying.and cared not what his daughter keptand cattle roamed the plain, and hereand charming reverie's vain deflectionand cheers salute him. Tanya mustand clasps her neck; and now she seesand coachmen swear, and women squeal.and counsellor (retired) Flyánov,and country stillness: there the lyreand crisply crunch the morning snow.and, curious now about the lot,and daily scenes of modish lifeand dead ideas from that old hoard,and dinner with a touch of idleand doctors, he'd have died in bed.and dreamt that she with him one dayand duck get up; with instant timing,and Dunya works the samovar;and dutifully shared his lifeand ease his catch with all due care.and eatables beyond all classingand empty gossip, you'll allow,and entered. Ballroom overflowing...and entice a fellow inand enviable for a poet,And Eugene? half-awake, half-drowsing,and even honourable man:and evening now drew on in mist...and every day its own enjoyment?and every man won't understand itAnd every minute his lorgnetteAnd every morning I awakeand every night shares her repose.and every plea that lips can treat;and everything around was dreaming,and everything is cramped and loud;and exclamations, and good cheer.and faithful wife I'd have been cast.and fastens, like a term of art,and fatherland and grim confinement?and feather-beds, and birds in cages,and feel once more emotion's ban.and felt himself love's invalide.and festal evenings in the gloom.and finally be turned to rockand finds the world a darkling show?and flown like arrows from a bow.and Flyánov, amply lubricated,And foes he sees, long-since forgotten,and for a chuckle or a smile.and for belle Nina, as it read,and force that purity inspires,and for her cheeks to cease their blushing;and found her dreams, her secret fire,and frames would shudder, windows tremble;and friend Evgeny. The princessand friends and friendship, soul-destroying;and from her eyes the eager tearsAnd from the nearby Army stationand from the salon the princess,and from within come noise and cheer;and gallops. Pistols made for pairingand gave our heroine enjoymentand give her comfort to the end:and glad he was he'd thus arrangedand glittering whiteness all around.and glumly serves the medicine bottle,and good and bad are all mixed up. >and good and ill, and learning's fruit,and good old sun more seldom glowing;and Grandison beyond compare,and granite, were so far apart.and growing thicker; then, heart-shaking,and, hands a-tremble, Nyanya prayedand happy licence are allowed,and has no knowledge of deceit?and hate with malice; he whose lifeand health, life's sweetness and its shimmer,and heartless pleasure was up-graded;and heart so tender, it can stilland he believed his friends were readyand held him briefly in their sway,and he pursuing, till at lengthAnd he remembers, in the quietAnd here my sentiments impel meAnd here's the hearth, explains the crone,and hetman of the gambling-halls,and he was bored with social noise;And he was loved... at least he neverand hid the bookshelf's dusty stackand hills that delicately winterand home he drives, deep-sunk in thought.And home was now their destination;and hope and passion; life had glowedand how a country lives, and whyand how's Tatyana? Olga too,And how they weigh! I know aboutand human words, and horse's stamp!and I be by the world forgot;And if she happened anywhereand I'll be thirty in a trice?and I'll be true to him, for life.and in a corner make him chokeand in a singsong voice confideand in flat calm I've found the stuffand in full brilliance shines the ball.and in her grief seemed fit to die;and, in her hand, a small French book.and in her unconsidered noteand in his look there shows somehowand in it boldly I'm confiding...and in my soul, o spring, how madlyand in retreat from all enjoymentand in the bath-house had a tableand in the country, blissful, horned,and, in the district, this personaand in the eyes of the judiciousAnd in their daughters' close embracesand in the misted condensationand in the morning wouldn't knowand in the role of virtuous motherand, in the yard, stand eighteen jades.and introduced, for the last lap,and iron bridges will go archingand I surrender to my fate.and it deceived us in return;and it's the foreign phrase that tripsAnd Ivan Petushkóv; no, never.and jam in jars, and household wares,and jokes and spiteful gossip ranand jolly magpies on the flit,and junior Ensign in the Guards.and just a double charge of shotAnd just here, in the window-nook,and kept quite silent while she read.and kisses smack as young girls greet;and leant upon the granite shelf;and leave no faint footprint of glory...and Lensky follows her... Eugene,and Lensky, left eye closing, aimed --and life celestial's phantom gleams,and like an arrow from a bowand listen for the heart's first sound,and little dancing whirls of snowand lives, a veritable sage,and locked him in a dark recess.and logic; yet the conversationAnd long, as if through mists that spurted,and looked at him without a word,and looked for Lensky, while the labourand look, my cousin's come, Buyánov,and look serenely on your beauty!...and looks out on the darkened plain.and lovelorn maiden whom he'd known,and magic nights. In headlong courseand Malek Adel, de Linar,and manners of an earlier time.and melancholy as Svetlana,and mileposts grip the idle senseand more than once the German baker,And my companion, so mysterious,and my whole life has been directedand nameless rivulet, that sceneand neighbours, followed the same ends.and never played a shrewder trick.and never stir a foot away!and no one in the room so proudlyand no one's ear could take offenceand not a mention of my name...and not because she'd once preferredAnd not because she'd read him, either,and nothing in her look is altered:and nothing pierced his senses' blur.and not without a sigh, perforceand now a swooning mind attends me,and now at last he saw the World.and now it's Bordeaux the JudiciousAnd now, monotonously dashingAnd now, my friends, I hear from youand now the crunchy snow is strippingAnd now the door is opened wide,And now there's gradually beginningAnd now the two opponents doffand obstinate his look. But sheand offer to that ash a sigh;And of the cupboards, one containsand once again received a crown.and once forbidden fruit is seen,and on her cheeks the fever stays,and on her lips a light smile plays.and, on my bed-head gently leaning,and, on the crosses, jackdaw hosts.and on the crumpled sofa tooand on the flames let fall unseenand on their captivating trailand on their marks has made them stand;and opened Schiller... but the embraceand other, more exacting worries,And our young poet -- Olga fired himand pale, and fade without a word!and paler than the moon at dawn,and Paris too. But hear my pleading:and parted from her by their star.and part in kindness? Just the same,and parts the fringes of his curtain;and pay my debt in the same coinand plaits a piebald shoe of bast;and pledged to you, and firmly planned:and plunged in tender shame's confusion,and portents of the lunar phase.and prone to censure in our thought;and pâté, Strasbourg's deathless glory,and put a cross-sign on the maid.and put his glasses on to seeand put our heart into a shiverand put them on a paced-out site.and racking with their strain and stressand radiate a rainbow: blazingand ran far off... the Muse came too.and raven curls of shoulder-length.and read my Apuleius keenly,and read the books there on her own.and redcurrants throw at him.and rest his dear bones in the tomb,and rest myself from earlier days.and riches, and the wish to thankand rightly so, but now his painand roused the village long ago:and ruled him like an autocrat --and sang me to the altar-mat.and sat down by the window-sill.and satisfied with what he'd got,and sat there as the minutes crept;and saved from being charmed or fooled!and says: Farewell, you vales and fountains!and scorned his fellows through and through,and, scroll in hand, before her eyesand sees... whatever do you think?and self-oblivion was his art!and set off prompter than a whistleand set on hating the coquette,and sets her gently on the floor.and she, submissively, inertly --and should have played a different part:and shout, and make room for the pair.and shouts suggest a crowded wake;and sideways her poor head is stooping.and sighs, and asks oneself all through:and silently he hung his head.and sink to prose's humble level:and skids and tumbles down; the cheerfuland sleeping sounder than a rock.and slowly day begins to climb.And so, at last, feature by feature,and so, before the world of learning,and so he lacks the strength to mentionand so in the salons could makeand so in winter-fields will shiverAnd someone's heart will feel a quiver,and some were even testifyingand soon his travels had begun,and soon, oh soon the storm's arrearsand soon they bring her... a guitarand soon will day's bright tune be played;and so the harmless chat progressesAnd so they lived, two ageing mortals,and so your faithfullest supporterand stately periwigs, their fame.and still exempted from removaland, still transparent to the view,and still within, behind the veiland stops his doleful heart from sleeping:and stoves with tiles of various hue.and strip the forest round about.And suddenly her radiance lightedand swaggers in a red calpack;and swarming in his inmost soul.and take due warning from my speech.and taken by the French -- some prize! --and tea and supper; there's an innerand teaching children how to spell.and tears were drowning her regard.and tea's brought in. Instead of chimesand tedious means to festive ends.and telling trochee from iambicand tell of children's plighted playingand than these letters, and these tears.and that embittered mind which boilsand the blancmanger, then a fleetand the churchyard where, new-erected,and the deep-throated billows' choricand the derivative Knyazhnín:and theirs was the poetic flameand the majestic, antlered royal,and then a boat, with oars a-swinging,and then a drozhky's clopping soundand then a stroll in Letny Park.and then concludes: she loves him yet!and then, indoors the livelong day,and then it's tea that comes to mention,and then old cousin Pelagéyaand then sat silent all the way.And then she broods and mopes for good,And then, to part us in full measure,and then, with an enchanting grace,and the poet, without a sound,and there at large he goes patrollingand there a tombstone says its wordand there, beneath your noonday sky,and there, love's protestations, bindingand the Skotínins, grizzled sages,And the sly baseness, fit to throttle,and the young city-bred newcomer,and those we sing for will be paidand though he liked a fiery quarrel --and though my muse may be capricious,and though perhaps old fires were thrustingand thought, a sleepy numbness steals;and though to do so would be daring,and thoughts of her were what inspired himand thus our race, so fluctuating,and to it, with a grave import,and took a mortgage on his land.and took two Petriads in calf,and to Tanya, when he was through,and to that far and lonely nookand to the vision of those mortaland trails alone around the wood.and trains a mirror till it facesand trembles like a hunted fawn.and tried to write, but a hard sessionand truffles, which have ever beenand underneath her downy pillowand, under, toute à vous Annette;and up the rustling curtain crawls.and useful goods of every kind.and volume three of Marmontel.and wakened Lensky by exclaiming:and walk, and breathe, before I telland warmed the Chinese teapot; flowingand washed its face, to her brought wordand wasted life's fine flower meanwhile.and watched a different world unroll.and watch him stubbornly bring lowand watch your daughters closer yet,and Werther, martyred and doom-laden,and what came out? a hairy, tumbled,And what's more, they're so supercilious,and what's your name? she asks him, speakingand when, by misty moon, the eastand when its waters were not showing,and, when one's least prepared for itand where had he arrived from, notand where he'd silently agreed.and where is love's tempestuous yearning,and where most surely notes are sped.and where's her sister now? and where,and where Terpsichore aloneand where Thalia, gently napping,and where the husband, recognizingand while the star still flew, she'd hurryAnd while with all despatch he's dressingand whiskers -- all of this it keepsand whisper Dunya, pay attention!and whist, that's now so keenly fêted --and with a halting, trembling gaitand with a sigh I now admitAnd with a smile the world caressed us:and with a yawn took up his pen,and with his dinner, and his wife.and, with it, forced renown to come --and with its feeble glow outliningand, with my Eugene, so have I.and with no post, no work, no wife,and with the decorous throng to followand wore his dressing-gown to dine.and wrecked the flooring-boards for good;and yawn in silence at the stageand yet a distant admonitionAnd yet, although it's past conveying,and yet by Vergil or Racineand yet in her you'd not detect --and yet inseparably present,and yet in vain ennui I squanderand yet so light. All that is realAnd yet that goddess whom I'd neverand yet your honour is my gageand your alas-ing and alack-ingand your sincerity of thoughtan elegy to her address,an eloquence of fevered strength,A new acquaintance claims our quill.an idle monk in glum seclusion,a nightingale, in forest gloom,an inn at each stage of the route.an ode in twenty-five cantos.an offering ready for the ground.an old man saw her as she came,a note from Lensky; in betweenanother, a more chilling dream,another, and his memory's fledanother bard in exaltationanother, freakish one, who staysAnother had the skill to ravishAnother!... No, another neveranother of the ball-dictators,Another page of recollection:another's grin was sly and shifty,another's joy, another's breast,a novel graced with such a name.a novel in Lafontaine's manner...a novel on the established linea novel, vague and superficial,anticipates a swim, in steadAnton Delvig, poet and close friend of Pushkin.An unknown yard, she sees from thence,an urge to sleep; soon, clear as clear,any Madonna by Van Dyck:a park, enormous and neglected,a parodistic raree-show?apartment where a double glazea passer-by; and on tiptoea patriot, a cosmopolite,A pause of silence and inaction,a place for rest. Eugene aloneA place where you'll find none of us.a plain, unceremonious troop,a poet, and a Kantian sage.a portrait with a charming touch;appears offensive or amusingApplause. Onegin enters -- passesapproaches Olga; Lensky's signeda pretty girl exactly likea quilted chamber-robe and cap.a raging torrent, capped with breakers,a rambling walk beside my lake,arch-commentator of the dream.arch-rake, pothouse tribune-persona,are almost bursting; she's quite ready,are bound, by every virtuous wife,are coloured in a single tone,a red-foot goose, weight something fearful,are entered here, in friendship's gage,are here untouched by fashion's reign,are just as nimble as their feet.are old times, and the servants' hall.a rest from toil and all its aches,a restless urge for change of placeare treated to the fullest rigourare we recalled to grief still burninga riding whip. Tanya keeps walking...a rogue, a slanderer, a poltroon,a rooster head, and on the twitcharound her neck, or when for heraround Priam the much-respected,arrested by the sheer perfectionArrived apace, he gives the wordarrives, the girl's exhausted gaze,a Russian family's old traditions;a Russian hammer-blow, repairsas all things did, to bore him; homing,as at a censure that was hard.a saucy kibítka is slicingas battles go, I've not begun;as bonneted Academicianas by the shortest way they flew,a scream rings out... the cabin's quaking...as did the general at her side.a secret truth, and at our costa seedling fallen in the earth.As far removed as they were ableas fast as post-horses could go,as fate's mysterious purpose burrows,as files, and scissors straight and curving,As for the other one... tomorrowas fresh as ever, for its gracesas from their luscious hive go tumblingas gage of all things that were good,as gay as morning and as clear,a shadow, null and meaningless,a shambling hoof along the way;a sham that trustful souls work out;a sharp-nailed paw towards her; bracingas he descended to the grave.as helpmeet in my sad existence,as horses whirled him through the dust.as if a cold hand squeezed her heart,As if before some mournful partingas if beneath her, dark and rumbling,as if she'd been profoundly sleeping,as if some goal had been achieved.as if spellbound, Tatyana stands.as I have... learn from my belief(a simile of this and that)a simple monument is built.a simple Russian family night:as infant sleep, or the unaffecteda single thing to her. His headas instituted long ago.as in the nook he'd sit aloneas I recall a bygone age?as it assembles them around;(as I've so oft in jest related)?asked Lensky: Should we start, I mean?a skeleton jerked by a cable,ask Tanya out to dine, and theyA sledded coach, for years forsaken,as linen's brought for him to wear.a slipper, or a magazine?as love's technique, when it would blareAs, lovingly, in his confession,as much as in Moscow the proud.as much of banquets and the corkA sorry state of things, it's true!a soul of sympathy and grace,a soul so innocent, so trusting.a soul that nothing can renew...a soul that perished long ago,as pair by pair the dancers fly.a spirit strange, a spirit burning,as sacred, lies before me still.as Sadi sang in earlier ages,as scarlet heels have lost their nameassembly, silent and dejected?as smoke in azure sky disperses.as something not to be declared,As soon as he appears, discussionas sung of old, in years of glory,a stall, a kitchen and a fence.a stanza villainously padded.A statuette of Napoleon.a steed responsive to the bridle,as the perfection of our days!a story that still wants completing;a stride on Petrarch's path, allayedA sudden clatter!... blood was curdled...a suite of elegies that, throbbing,as was the old suspicious sage,as well-read, though of pedant cast.as when chill autumn rains surround us,a swift, polite reply is written.As with old friends, she craves diversionas yours did, Homer, godlike lord,as youthful sinning, or the strainsat a friend's word, a girl's caress.at any hour escape his cell.at any other sort of book.at any time he'd be prepared.at Cleopatra, hiss her off,a tear for him... but what's to weep?at earliest morning out she started,at eighteen years, to some compassion.a tempting plume for you to take?At feasts, though, full of pert aggression,at feasts, was strong and fancy-free?at fifty, would prolong the storyat first by Moscow's youthful gracesAt first, disparity of heartAt first I thought it out of seasonat first Madame gave him tuition,At first Onegin's tongue producedat first she had no heart to range;At first they called; but on perceivingat first, with God knows whom to see,at forty he'd have got the gout,at heart by grim remorse's freezing.A thinker in a desert mission,At home she'll equably receive him,A thought was born, and quickly noted...at hours, which, why I cannot think,at last alone, and quite forgettingAt last he wakes, and stirs in bed,at last the final hours arrive.At last, with dawn upon him, stoopingat least by a regretful kindness;at least her tone is sometimes foundAt least I'll give him some advice:At least you then showed for my yearsat length, midst children swarming round him,at my famed portrait and will say:at noontime does his horn resounda tomb, a Cyprian shrine's invented,At once Anisia came to greet her,at once they give a man the spleen.a treasure never to be shared.a true companion to the end,a truly noble disposition;at soldier-husbands, and the drum.at some dull aunt's, sat down and knewat such vivacious, free good sense.at sunken wax inside a bowl:attainable!... But now my lotat the Academic Diction-book.At the Larins'! But how mysterious.at the same moment in her ear:at thirty, lucratively wed;at this betrayal's fateful news?At this midnight of my condition,attract the sneering of the jealous,at twenty, was a fop inbred,at two-ball billiards prove his skill;at verse, and hiss an imprecation,audacious tunnels will be marching:August Lafontaine (-), German novelist of family life.avert his chest from pistol's click,a vivid brush, a witty rattle --a vulgar touch. I can't translate.awaits him -- hears nobody coming.away from trusting his own eyes.Away inside that unassumingaway, so cool, so unconcerned?a wondrous tenderness. And whethera word or two, or stare unseeing,a young girl's looking-glass is kept.Bacchante-like, her flighty prancing;Back to his regiment the Lancer,Ballerina, once courted by Pushkin.BaratynskyBard of The Feasts, and heart's depression,Bards of our tearful generation,barrels, and then to drive asidebassoons and flutes begin to trip.bathed in the moon's inspiring light.battling along that watery freeway,bear, blackness, blizzard, bridge and crow,bear's gone; a hallway, no mistake;beauty with all its heavenly spell,became like brother knit to brother.became their scrutiny's concern.because some glance of his has bittenbecome a joke to us, its game,becomes a horse for all to see;be doomed to feel it: there's one goalBeds are made up; the guests are allbeds, bridges, lawn, she never stops,bed-time, and time for guests to go.befitting such a noble pile:before a cold, indifferent crowd,before a fire too slowly flaming,before first light they have appointment,before him roast beef, red and gory,before his eyes, imaginationbefore it was the golden playbefore my gaze began to pass.before Onegin there collectedbefore she goes, she seeks permissionbefore such candour of expression,before such playfulness of soul!...before the clavichord with knittedbefore the fire a table's spread;before their eyes they see unfoldbefore the window taking station,before which life's horizon yetbefore you on the ground, unhearing,be good enough to go on reading:begot by boredom out of greed.behind deceit or double-dealing?)behind her followed wildly dancing;behind the door the clash of glassesbehind the mill. In solemn talk,Believe (as conscience is my warrant),believes in her elected dreamingbeloved friend, thou art my bride!below a hill; a garden stoodBelow it, when sprang rains are swishing,below the others who have signedbeneath, a brook rolls its tributebeneath a shroud that's all dishevelled;beneath bird-cherries and acaciasbeneath it, vapour wreathed and coiled.Beneath storm's vestment, on the seaway,beneath the stone reposes here,beside his heavier half is snoring.beside the window-sill, that bedbeside unfinished lines, a suitebespectacled, in tattered dress;bestirred himself, was devilish active!between their girls and this half-Russian.Between the lines of text as printed,Between them, every topic startedbetween two aunts, in pillared shelter,bewitches Tanya... he is ablebeyond a doubt, its wondrous tracingbeyond a string of dull tableaux,beyond the grave we all must build --Beyond the stream there smoked and stirredbidding us to reject for goodbigot or prude? or has he quitebilliards are dropped, cue put to bed:bitter-sweet glory's inspiration,blessed are daytime's care and cark,Blest he who in his youth was trulyBlest he who's left the hurly-burlyblest is the advent of the dark!blest the poor lover who reads outblest... though perhaps her fancy's caughtblinded to everything aboutBliss was so near, so altogetherblooms when there's nothing else to do.bludgeon the sense; it faints and whirls.blue smoke of chimneys goes aloft,blush to descry in looking-glassesBokharans, orchards, merchants, shacks,Books, riding, walks, sleep heavy-laden,boo Phaedra out as paralytic,Bordeaux, you're like a faithful friend,bored by success' giddy trifle,boredom has just as sure an entry,Boredom, that's what so bad, my friend.bored with hilarity, and weary,Boston and ombre for the old,both dull and ludicrous, the bundedboth hearts to blaze had now expired;both set him yawning just as much.bottles to which some pitch is clinging:boulevards, chemists, and Cossacks,bound where the magic bow will send her,boys, country women, stately halls,boy-tribes with skates on loudly slicebreaking the lilac bushes, smashingbreakneck by moonlight at my side!breaks a new passage with his sleigh;bribe-taker, glutton and buffoon.brigade of liveries in the hall,bright Northern Cleopatra she:bright summer days that passed so slowly,bringing her unity and strength;brings out its faro pack, and deals.bring up a table, and a taper;broke greetings off, and gave Eugenebrooding that is the lover's ploy.brushes for teeth, brushes for nails.brushes on thirty different scales;Bubbles like Hippocrene are spraying;bursts with cold envy and with bile?burst to a fiery blaze in season?but all concurred that, truth to speak,but at the window, in the splendidbut brighter than the heavenly litter,but by and large their talk's a hashBut come, thou youthful inspiration,But, did they not corrupt society,But dinner's served, so two by twoBut don't be cross, my darling friend,but Eugene hasn't moved; for certainbut Eugene's out from din and press:But, even by accident, her passionBut ever stranger and more fearful:But finally she heaved a yearningbut first, the dreams that hope can cherishbut for the effect that he createdBut friendship, as between our heroes,but from her shaggy-liveried rangerbut from our friends, good Lord protect us!But from the hero of my tale,But God, how deadly dull to sampleBut go he won't: for him, a letterbut groomed an anecdote-collectionBut he, by sad and rocky ways,But he could draw a joking moral,but held up by the simple factbut here comes our loud-talking prancerbut here we must control our mouth.But here, with our congratulationBut he's mistaken: Eugene's lyingbut hold my tongue, lest it appearsBut how she jumped, when in this hovelBut, if you've kept some faint impressionbut I, in love, was dull and dumb.but I'm allergic to the North...But I'm denied this: all for youBut I myself read my bedizenedBut, in a fearful huff, his thriftybut in an earlier age retarded,but in his songs kept pride of placebut in it there are certain pagesBut in misfortune or displeasure,but, inside brackets, I'm contendingBut in that desert his attainmentsbut in the old days she had heardbut in Zaretsky he inducesbut I perhaps will be decliningbut I refuse to chop or change.but it's the first time you'll have known it,But it's the talent for concealingBut it was passion that preemptedbut I've become another's wife --but I've not got the least intentionBut I was simply not intendedbut I won't praise you -- let me joinbut just then Eugene's pistol flamed...but just to make the bargain keener,but ladies' hands are not for kissing;But let's return to our essential,but looks and talk took the direction,but, lovely maiden, wilt thou notbut madrigals I've got to write!but meanwhile let him live, and thinkBut my Eugene that night directedbut never asked her husband first.but no, my Moscow never stumbledBut not today. Although I dearlyBut now Aurora's crimson fingersbut now grown plain and kind in stead,But now, in this vindictive pleasurebut now it bores me every minute.But, now I've praised the queens of fashion,but now I've rather lost the art.but now my brain is darkened, Tanya:But now -- oh God! -- the thought of you,But now our roads are bad, the agesbut now, thank God, you're well and steady,but now the mansion is forsaken;But now the radiance of the moonBut now they're near. Already gleamingBut now Vladimir's doubts are still:But now! what brings you to my feet?but, nurse, you see... Oh, don't refuse...but Olga would have never read!But onward, onward with my story!But ours, whatever he might be,but pantaloons, waistcoat, and frock,but piteous he, the all-foreseeing,but salt; near the princess a veinbut scarcely understood a word.but she (for women, that's not new)But she refuses to perceive him,But she who modelled for the sketchingBut soft! You hear? A scowling critic,But so it is: I'm in no statebut soon the ways we trod were partedbut spared no glance for Cicero;but suddenly a snowdrift rumbled,but Tanya found she couldn't cry:But tell me, which one was Tatyana?But tell me who she is. My wife.But that's enough. At once, in stead,But that's enough. My beauty's letterbut then a sudden breeze surprises,But then, oblivious of the city,but then she found their choice was strange.But there'll be such a rout and scrabblebut the salon's preoccupationBut the swift summer-time proceeds --but the unbending goddess-daughterBut to the garden, to the sceneBut was it happy, his employment,But what about Eugene? With reasonBut when a later age has found us,but, when he'd rushed to Uncle's manor,but when past joking he fell sick,But when the hour of youthful passionbut when you've managed his despatchbut where are all your evenings spent?But where, mid tragic storms that rend her,but where such hymns in my directionBut while she roams in thought, not caringbut whispers, the guffaw of fools...But who stands there, in this selectedbut wildly still her heart is rushing,but will, and reason's strong constraint,but, without asking, they transportedBut you, blest husbands, to the endBut you, grand tomes I loathe with passion,but you'll undoubtedly agreeBut you perhaps find no attractionbut you're not paying any heed.But you're not sociable, they say:but your vile Helen's not my star --but youthful, virgin hearts deriveBuyánov, my vivacious cousin,Buyánov's heels have split the woodBuyánov tried -- got flea in ear.Buyánov whirls off Pustyakova;by all is sweetly mutilated,by ancient limes, or by a brook;by any itch for marriage ties;by Baratynsky's wondrous pen,by blazing fireplace, and intoneby calmly aiming at his pateBy chance those verses haven't vanished;by clearing every sort of debt;By contrast, in the frozen season,by country freedom, rightful pardonby decent company, has not,by deep and shady woods protected;by dint of cuff and kick and smackBy dire presentiment awestruck,By dreams now sad in their conception,by dreary snowdrifts piled around;by drozhkies jaunting at full powerby dull eternity's purlieus,By enemies, no less by friendsby fate's decree: this freakish stranger,by flickering past us like a fence.by fresh ennui as he reflectedby heaven with such an unsubduedby judgement of the modern campby Lensky in his Olga's book;by magic everything instils herby mist of tears, without replyingby moonlight two young girls took pleasure,by my Eugene, not for his heart,by Naiads, one foot on the ground,by nature, contradiction's friend.by nervous hands of a schoolmaid:by Neva, on a summer night,by now he's driving home to dress.by now his bride-to-be has wedBy now the rays of spring are chasingBy now the shades of night are flying,By now the sledge is at the portal --By now the sun is climbing steeply,By now whist's heroes have completedby pain and languishment; she cravedby Pushkin.Byronby Scott, by Seneca, or Byron,by sighs of passion or by praise.by six-page letters, rings and tears,by sluggish Lethe may be swallowed,by some perverse schoolboy for sport;by the cold world's corrupt finesse;by the new whisper in the wood?by two small oaktrees in a ride.By virtue of procrastinatingby waters that were still and clear,by way of secret tome that sleptby way of toast to their fair neighbour;by what's called machinal reaction,by will of Zeus, the high and just,by writers of her admiration,Café-restaurant in Paris.calls out his name... All unavailing:calm men with beatific features,came distant horns, and gallant singing.came driving to his country seat,came out so soft, it scarce was heard.can chatter, and be silent too,can disavow that. I have readCan it be she? Eugene in wondercan it be true, and firmly statedCan it be true, it won't come twice --can it be true, their crown at lastcan it be true you must awaitcan lean on faith, who can dismisscan read enough to get my fill.Can she have found the enigma's setting?can't really be: for we've outgrowncan yet keep nail-care much in mind:Capricious belles of grand Society!caressing breath has fanned my facecaricatured them in his mind.cartoonist-pencils of Saint-Priest;Chairs are pushed outward, loudly rumbling,champion of rights, as in the wrong.--------Chapter EightChapter Five--------Chapter Four--------Chapter Seven----------------Chapter SixChapter Three--------Chapter Two--------cheek upon hand she softly criescherries then we'll throw at him,cherries throw and raspberriesChilde-Harold-like, Eugene's devotingchoked up. There's no wreath on the bough;choruses, Tanya can but wait,Christmas came on. What joy, what gladness!claiming Tatyana'd found her man;Clarissa, Julie, or Delphine --clears in a flash the freezing room;clock in the country rings the hour;close as a shadow on the ground;closely embraced, in wending here,coated with a thin layer of spite.coldness of wit; each note he took,cold, pure as ice, and as unkind,cold reason, sleep in sensual weltercome in and warm yourself a minute!comes clearer through the mists of dawning.comes for awakening, comes for slumber;come to disturb me and affright.Come to me in my golden halls.come to the fields, my friends! To horse!come, trouble my imagination,Command me, darling, as you choose.commands our rhymester-brotherhood:compact of amorous trash, and worse,Compassion, yes, and indignation,complete with broad-brimmed bolivar,Compliment and congratulation;comrades despised, and comrades rotten;conclude that it's high time she wed!...condemned the millstones as a sham.condemned to a lifetime of hard,condemns the monde and its excitement;Conjecture found unending matter:consequences of hideous woe;Constantinople.conversing in a singsong voice;converting morning to midnight,convinced at heart that my most zealouscooked-up where garret-vermin babble,coquettishness has got no trace --could I accept for just a minuteCould I be happy circumscribingCould I just see the house, I wonder?could it be she... or had he dreamed?could it be she, who just had turnedCould it not be that by conventioncould not conceive how solemn Grimmcould see no harm in books; himselfcould they not give each other quartercould they not laugh out loud, beforecouncil, and with profound head-shakingCount F. P. Tolstoy (-), well-known artist.covered her face. When all came outcovered the golden coal -- the steamcows low, in the still nights of springcraving your tolerance in season --(critical judges, strict as any)critics and their capricious vogues,crossed to the window, read it through.culture, so far from healing, hurts us;custom is despot of mankind.custom's bestowed us from on high.damns the intruders; Tanya liesDancer and choreographer.dared clean his nails in front of him,daren't look behind her; fairly dashing --darkly above the water's lilt,darlings, then we'll run away,darts to the boy, and looks, and stillDawn comes in mist and chill; no longerDay faded; on the table, glowing,days that are lost behind the curtain,Days when I came to flower serenelydaytimes and evenings passed alone?dead ash sets no more sparks a-flying;Deaf to her sister's intervention,deaf to the voice of your despair?dean of Chaldea's learned team,dear companions, darling friends,dear ladies' feet fly past like hail,dear Tanya, lover of illusion;Dear Tanya, you're condemned to perish;death on his brow, your friend should lie,debauchery was praised, and studieddeceived, was overjoyed to rest.declares itself in ways unwitting --Decreed in highest court for ever...Deep down, an epigram is stirringdeep in distraction, his own rook.deep in Moldavia the abhorred,defeated, turned up at his neighbour's.delicious novels, laps them up;Delphine, by Madame de Staël, .demanded. Yes, she looks... And yet...demanding: when will he reply?Departure date's long overtaken;Deserving object: there can bedesires and dreams and griefs were breedingdespite herself, is Lensky's doom;despite herself, rehearsed the part:devoted to the Muse, or learning,devote to whist an evening party,devoured a book with rapt attention,devouring Gibbon and Rousseau,Diana's breast, the cheeks of Flora,did any glasses seek her face,dip in their jugs; where shadows quiverdirect from shipboard into ball.ditties of our secret world,ditty of our secret world,ditty portends a loss; more deardiversely urging the same plea,Dmitrievdoes he still pose, and play the freak?do fields echo with work and shout;dogged by one feeling, only one --Dogs, howling, rushed in her direction...Dominique de Pradt (-), voluminous French political writer.Don Juan's and the Giaour's creator,dons of Epicurean rule,don't judge the race before it's run --Don't let a ghost be your bear-leader,don't let me stray in paths unplanned.don't waste your efforts on the air.doubted of it, so lived in bliss.doubts, to exhaust the heart, then firedowagers smiled as she went by;do with her when a flat replydown from his Kalmuck steed he rolleddown from the porch, light as the lightest,down in our damp earth-mother's womb!down slopes of mountains, when a blazeDown there, by slow degrees, the streamdown to the garden, and her eyesdown to the plain in turbid rills.drank in your words when all was still --drawn from a dim, warm-hearted past,dreams of inconsequential cast,dreamt of reproving what they'd done:Dressed like -- --, duly dreadingdressed up a desperate egoismdrew scrutiny no less complete --drink in the midnight benediction,drive on! And now we see a-shimmerDrive on, Andryushka! quicker, quicker!drives home -- and plunging deeper in,drive there, and with formalitydrunk, eaten, yawned, grown weak and stout,due punishment was handed downdumb I must perish, and alone.each coldly plans the other's slaughter...Each day, despite the appeals of reason,each grips his pistol in his hand.each in tumultuous turn descendingeach moral puts us in a doze,each news of her he'd been imbibing --each object held a secret messageeach of us has his favourite lobby:Each one by now is badly needingEach others' and their own successes,each springtime, on the growing tree,each took four steps across the space,early tomorrow at the millearnestly striving for persuasionearn for me the rewards of fame --earn us the favour of the Court?earth's rim grows light, and a forewarningeight rubbers; and by now eight timesElated by the music's blaring,Elbow on table, spirit seething,Elle était fille, elle était amoureuse.else, having found his pleasure cloying,embodied by the power of dreaming,emboldened by his Olga's smile,emotion, thought, and magic sound;empire, and fled it; happier stillempty the purpose it proclaims,Enchanted land! There like a lampionencore Moëna, -- and rejoiceended his wild career of fashionendorsed by fashionable rabble,engaged then -- but against her will;enormous bear; Tatyana yelled,Enough, I tell you, that will do --Enough I've wandered in the suiteEnough, my friends; it's all so-so.enough of my loquacious lyre:Enough, stand up. It's now for meEnough. The load is off my shoulder!enquired the lady of the hall:ensconced beside the window-pane.entered his sentence in the books.enticing nets to do them harm.epoch's portrayed, survived the ban,Escaped from social rhyme and reason,e sempre bene, gentlemen.etcetera. But her trepidationEugene as clever, and quite sweet.Eugene, at Olga's side, was rackedEugene attends the boulevard,Eugene forsakes the packed reception,Eugene had no wish to betrayEugene has caught up, quick as quick,Eugene's a pedant in his dress,Eugene's response was automatic;Eugene takes Olga, and is gone;Eugene turned countryman. He tastedEugene was free, and as a dresserEugene, with solemn face, paid heed,Eugene would willingly have startedEurope's most finely chiselled waresEven at home his occupationeven by Ladies' Fashion Post,even if he drops or pines away.Evening, and darkening sky, and waterseven in joke the heart won't shiver.even in novels, vice entraps us,even in our names (and how much worseeven the scandal's not amusing;even to count them throws me out.even without me it will sink;ever so roughly rocked my soul!everything's dim and unenthusing;Evgeny! Ah! Tatyana, fleetingEvgeny Baratynsky (-). Poet and friend of Pushkin.Evgeny echoed him: My second?Evgeny, full of inward laughter,Evgeny, hating litigation,Evgeny looks at Lensky, chilledEvgeny loved him from his heart,Evgeny quietly beganEvgeny read the sad epistleEvgeny stood, with soul regretful,Evgeny's total store of knowledgeEvgeny thought in just this fashion.Evgeny waits: and here comes driving,Evgeny, whom the repercussionevoke emotion's pitter-patter,evoke for you a sombre bliss;excited not a hint of passion:exercised, under lucre's banner,exhausted and done up, I takeExhausted by the ballroom's clamour,exists for me one special pair!expecting winter, nature waited --explodes; wine fizzes up... but stay:expose his soul to an intrusioneyes rolling, arms uplifted, furious,Faces before him flash and changefaceted muzzles by the rammer;facing a belle I loved with passion,fades from the view, and in the hushfail to perceive -- that's by the way).fancies, my rhythmic search for truth,fancies once more are hotly bubbling,fancy, a wine serene in mood,far-distant heaven's vaulted room;Fare thee well, and if for ever,Farewell, familiar woods! Farewell,Farewell, Petrovsky Castle, glimmerFarewell the games of golden childhood!Farewell to you, my free existence!Farewell, you realms that own the swayfarewell you too, familiar mountains!far, far from Italy, his adored.far from it! just one more collapse.far more than most who leave this life.fate could be something else again..,Fate saved Evgeny from perdition:fat Pústyakov has driven in;Faublas' disciple for an age --feeling is quaint, and fit for fools.feelings he valued -- from outside.feeling to what had long been heartless:felicitously every theme,fever of rhyme: thereby he's doubledfieldward, in noisy swarm, the bees.field-work, and walks with inspiration,fieldwork directed from the path,filled him with thoughts that swarmed and whirred;finding in that no deprivation --find, in the trivial, serious matter;finds her alone, and there they sitFired by the god of inspiration,fire of the cutlets' scalding fat,fir, forest, hedgehog, raven, snowfirst flakes of snow whirl round and sinkfirst snow for shoulders, breast and head:first, we'll take vanity, and letfits us as if it were our own?five hundred years) for sure our bywaysFive versts or so from Krasnogórie,fixing an early rendezvousflicker of swiftly twirling pairs,flits Olga: now, tell me straight out,flown from society as we know it,flown like an arrow, then he's givenflows and reverberates. Reciting,fly to my corner like a dart,foes, friends and loves, their voice is stilled.Foes! Is it long since from each otherfolly for me to interfereFonvizin sparkled, freedom's champion,for aeons. Maybe it was fatedfor angry heirs, as one, to fallFor cousins from afar, on meetingfor dance, and din, and worldly ways,for dreams, or journalistic battle,forehead, he strummed, his vision flittedforests where my young age was passedforetells for her some wondrous role;for friends of languor, or of fun,for God's sake, that will do. But, brother,For goodness' sake, you can't be seriousforgot. Its trodden path is nowforgotten features. Can you say,forgot to think of town and friendsfor grumbling, gossiping and swearingfor happiness, I sought, and rangedfor happiness -- that alien role.for heart's delight, or fun, you took,for her improvement, a roman,for her instruction, and her breastfor her, no joy from winter-time,for him all sham has found rejection,for him a lofty stair. His shade,for him, at night, before the indulgencefor him, the objective on life's chartfor : his obligationsfor his old courses to be changed.for honour, a straightforward pride.for hours alone; she walked and walked...for hours, with elbows on the table --for in our time, beyond dubiety,For it was custom that consoled herfor jokes, and rows, and merry dreams!for long... for evermore. We've chasedfor maybe fortune will have savedfor men to see, still in the scopefor me to glimpse this Phyllis everfor, mistress-like, it's brilliant, vain,for nature's unadorned reactionfor Olga, on the spreading lawn,for Olga's beauty, Lensky givesfor planting cabbage, like Horatius,for quite a while by fortune's hand.for raking up historic dustfor reasons of censorship because, as Nabokov explains, tsars were notForsake, indulgent reader -- drivenfor Satan, love's a splendid joke.For several days she peaked and pinedfor shame and fear my wits are sliding...for she was bored by laughs and noiseFor such am I. When you were speakingfor swapping bullets with my mate.for Tanya, winter's ways are dread.for tempests and for feasts and noise;for the bleak tongue of boorish clods --for the first time the Muse came near.for the footlights, this fickle traitorfor them by fathers who, as friendsfor them, in Butterweek the greaseful,For then, Onegin, I was younger,for the sublime, and for the passionsfor the two ladies at the gates.for the young pilgrim. So at lastFortress captured from the Turks in .fortunate one, he'd not disgrace;fortune, and dignity, and glory,forty years long would criticisefor unmeant kindness -- how he shone!for us are instruments and tools;for vanity, and din, and glare!...forward or back? it's true that heFor what charade is he apparelled?for what's been given us to take;(for which he must receive due praise).for which of them the tomb was yawning,for whom her passion has been plannedfor whom, to expiate your crimes,for witty; in his Gallic wayfor wood and tallow; all the rangefor you have, at this early date,for you, I think, the humble dimnessfor your enlightenment to sayfound for its utterance that night.found that in laughter yawns could stifle:four fateful stairs. Then, without slowingfragments of poems from the North,Francesco Albani, Italian painter (-).fraught with enticement and disaster?Freed from its dripping cork, the bottlefreedom and peace, in substitutionfreedom's enthusiastic dream,freezes my blood... Yet all the same,French encyclopedist.French poet (-). Author of Poésies Erotiques.frenzy which wrecks our lives for sound,fresh as a poppy-flower, your face.fresh from the cot, an infant pickle,fresh leaves... for such is heaven's mandate.Friend of my heart, be at my side,Friends, all this meant was: I've a datefriends, foes, priests, guests, inured attendantsFriendship, as I must own to you,Friends, how my heart would leap with pleasureFriends of my Ruslan and Lyudmila,friends, recollect how I surrenderedfrightened to death a timid love,frightening with all despair's disguises,From all sweet things that gave me pleasure,from all the world, they sat and poredfrom any gentlemanly distance;from ball to bed behold him come;from Boston's cloth or gossip's quote;from cruel fortune such a fate?from daybreak valleys lift the sun;from day to day she could but wait;from deepest backwood, furthest under...from dish of water, rings are shiftedfrom drowning's death in Lethe riverfrom early morning on he willFrom early on she loved romances,from gaol to greenwood, by such fictionfrom German realms of mist and steam,From here, deep-sunk in pensive woe,from her Monsieur took on the child.from her my lips will learn and markfrom her they strive to coax and coddleFrom his first youth he'd known the force,From hour to hour a surer capturefrom Million Street came floating round;from off her charming shoulder's drooping,from table, clattering on the floor;From that rough spell at last exempted,from the agent, with this tale to tell:from the first moment it was heardfrom their own country? Then she shotfrom thirty down to two; and stop,From violent passions fast pulsatingfrom waxen cell the bees againfrom whom he'd kept a letter, whereFrom widow Clicquot and from Moët,from young Tatyana's dwelling-place,frontwise and back, that way and this.frost gleams. We watch with gleeful thanksfrozen in his tight-fitting suit;fruit liqueurs and an Almanackfruits of my labour and my ink...full of his usual pith and wit,Full of obedience and demureness,galop, mazurka, waltz... Meanwhilegarden, a modest home, the placegave up the ancient Kremlin-keys:gay nature and its sparkling distance!gazes at all the scene around;gazes at him... and nonetheless,gentlemanly, quite precise,Gentleman, squire.get two young friends to pick a fight,Get up: it's gone six! I'll be bound,Get up, my child, it's time, get up!ghostlike, must trouble him who feels --giddy as Venus when she's mountingGirl in Zhukovsky's  poem who practises divination,  with frighteninggirl reapers as the streamlet flowsgirls' albums, signed in blood for choice;girls as they passed her spoke less loudly,girls often change to their contentmentgirls' tears, their swooning, for Eugenegive for a bookshelf, a neglectedGive me a pen and give me paper,give me the homely hearth, and lend...gives way to nature's normal passion:Giving his pistol-butt a squeezing,giving the lady their protection,Gladly. So when? Why not tonight?glitter and tumble as they go,glitters beneath its icing-sliver;glitters with hoar-frost all about.Godfearing folk will instituteGod grant that from this little bookGod grant them years and years of health!God grant you took at least a grain.God's thunder burn you up! And whengoes out into the courtyard spacesgoes out of us when youth is dead.Go, nurse, and leave me here apart.Goodbye, for now we make an end.Goodbye, Onegin, time I went.goodbye to you, my true ideal,good-looking, in the flower of age,good night; I swear I'll lie down soon.go off to sleep quite hale and hearty,gossip, and tricks, and the patrollinggraduates of the Levshin school,Grandison, cousin, d'you remember?great bard despite his modest trapping,grew hardened to life's frosty clime;grey Filatevna, to present hergrey-haired and weak, beneath it onlyGriboedovgripped him no more; soon they were raisinggrow cold, and hard, and stiff as stock,grows, surges, boils, for lack of roomguests bow, feet scrape, and children squall.Guillot, behind a stump in view,Gvozdín, Buyánov, PetushkóvGvozdín, exemplary farmer,had been for ever borne off farhad been imposed by winter's hand;had chased me to the world above.had come to him in field and glade;had drawn Eugene's especial heedhad filled this heart, and detestationhad fortune blest me by prescribinghad gone in no uncertain fashionhad killed his best friend in a duel;had left the squire no time to lookhad long been wasting and enslavedhad long proved tedious to distraction:had made his name, when, bold as bold,had nothing to employ his life.had once before, across the scenehad only debts on which to live.had ruled out reading, in their placehad with its brilliant mantle crowned --had won her loyalty! What soulhaphazard; so, to God be thanks,Happy a hundredfold, whoeverHappy is he who's known its fretfulharboured by maidens of thirteen!has come with Kharlikov; he passeshas driven off, to find his own.has felt time's desiccating blast?has fixed; but for my heart to beathas fixed on her a steady gaze.has found an end before his time.has found a port for his old age,has gone to Olga, swept the girlhas hardly mastered postal prose.has kept him warm in chimney's blazehas lately wintered, just a spacehas left, and no one here has met her...has made the park her brooding-place,has never staked his family seat.has opened up his serving-trap.has painted for us the first snowhas something low and unrefined.has taken on a silvery gleam;has voices that are more resounding,has wished it an abrupt goodbye --hate, love, joy, sorrow -- every feeling,have been a fool; yet he'd a right,have clearly got the upper handhave drenched the steel bit as they gohave each asked him to a soirée:have gnawed our bridges, and the fleahave other maidens, since you vanished,have pushed their frontiers further out,have reunited friend to friend!have snorted, reared, and whitely foaminghave vanished, like an empty noise,have you read lines of your creationhave your fill of revelry!having by her severe demeanourhaving decyphered on their browhe almost begs for absolution,he almost lost his mind, expired,he and Onegin start alludinghear my confession as I standhear, once more filled with inspiration,he arrives -- the cork goes flying up,heartfelt, imploring, touching trashHe asks. She can't accept. Why ever?heaven's will -- for you I'm set apart;he carries her inside the doorhe changed the corvée of traditionhe charged three roubles and a half,he consecrated to my keeping?...He could have spoken without harming,He cursed Theocritus and Homer,he danced attendance with the best;he dandled me as a small boy.He'd brought back all the fruits of learninghe'd drink his coffee, flutter throughHe deemed, in general, letters vain,He destined Olga's hand for me,He'd given up girls -- now gave up letters,he'd got annoyed, the tricky devil.he'd listen to the administrator;he doesn't hear when I addresshe dozed away; but when the realhe'd pop the poison in his chalice!He drained his glass down to the endhe drinks -- all shout and take a swill;he drives in brilliant sun; striatedhe drives there like a bird in flight,he drives up in and out of seasonhe'd sack the Muses and get wedded;he'd see his soul cool in its grate;he'd swim this Hellespont; then laterheeding the press, will make us lookhe ended even your employment;he even dares, once in a while,he eyes the door, looks slyly through.he failed to join that sharp professionhe fed on hope's deceptive dinner;he fell in love with darkest wildwood,He finds the shock beyond all bearing:he fled from their resounding chatter!He followed them without illusion,he found all kinds of brickbat hurled.he found Tatyana so attractive,He found them in some old collection,he found too much that he regretted:He gave his arm. In sad abstraction,He gave this figure -- loved with passion,He gave three balls a year, and ratherhe gazed out on the threatening glow.he goes ahead and parts the motleyHe goes inside, corpse-like of feature...He got so used to this immersion,he had conveyed some moral teaching,he had the talent of salutinghe has to bring the battle-case.he heard in stillness and in dinhe hears a voice; well, what? he's killed!he informed this envoy diplomatiche killed eight years in such a style,he knew too well that sort of scene.He lacked the slightest predilectionhe laughs -- they all begin to chuckle;He lay quite still, and strange as dreamingheld in constraint by pity's touch:he leaves a tender verse behind,he leaves one morning the hermetiche leaves the house, calls for his horsehe'll charm you with his fine invention,he'll spend before the looking-glass,hell's terrifying imprecation:he'll take you prisoner, you'll admireHe looks, and answers: Agafon.he looks, and sees the hour of day --he looks, in sweet irresolution,he loves you... like your kith and kin!helping the poor, or while I mendedHe mounts the sledge, with daylight fading:he murmurs: Olga's mine for saving;henceforth in front of you I weep,he never took one from the shelf,He nods -- they start to fuss and truckle;He opens up a door. What's thather bosom heaves, her cheeks are staringher bow, as calm and as restrained.her clever husband on the morrowher darling foot of its wet shoe,Herder, and even at times a Russian --her discomposure, her confusion,her drops of tears, and seated there,he reached the stream below the hill;he read, and read -- no satisfaction:he read of course the sceptic BayleHe reads to Olga on occasion,he really forced one to admire him --here a weak version, incomplete,Here comes the yard-boy, who has chosenhereditary foes they seem,Here, in his red peruke and glasses,Here insolent prize-dandies witherHere in the winter he'd have dinnerHere, near Saint Simeon; in December,here's boredom, madness or pretence,here, seize it quick for this quatrain!)here's Petushkóv, the local fop;Here stands, with shady park surrounded,here's tea that Olga's been preparing;Here's tea: the girls have just, as bidden,he rested -- wept for by his neighbours,here there's no conscience, here no sense;Here with his wife, that bulging charmer,Her eyes along the margin flittingher eyes are lowered, but ablaze,Her eyes were opened, and she saidher face would pale, she'd start to quiver.Her father, kindly, well-regarded,Her feelings in their weary sessionher feelings were far more inclined --her fingers shake, she doesn't dareHer frightened cry brought running outher full account of voiceless pain?her girlhood games; in them he'd shared,her golden earrings off and whipping;her grief, and nearly ran away.her handkerchief has fallen too;her hands affectionately pressed;her head in modesty cast down,her heartache, did it long compel her,her heart had long been overrun:her heart had spoken, free as air,her heart speaks to her even louderHer husband enters, thus concludingher husband's or the world's attention...He rings at once, and what a scurry!her journey home is overdue.her kindness, move Tatyana; yether little friends, Tatyana'd yawn,her look, so sweetly sorrow-laden,her love obeys the laws of feeling,Her loving spouse with approbationher manner is no less contained;her nerves, she leant on it her weight,He roamed the world, his lyre behind him;Heroine of Ozerov's tragedy Fingal.Heroine of Zhukovsky's poem of the same name.Hero of Louvet's novel about betrayed husbands.Hero of Mathilde, by Sophie Cottin, .her out-of-fashion clothes!... oh, mercies!her out-of-fashion turns of phrase,Her passion burns with stronger powderher path a hare in headlong flighther progress at the masquerade.her Russian was as thin as vapour,her sacred store of bliss and weepingher seal with its engraven crest.her secret work of magic suasion!herself not knowing how or why)her soul's attention; just behind herher soul was waiting... for someone.her steppeland charms into a rout.Her tender touch had never fingeredher thoughts away, knew how to lavishher to the altar and the crown.her way; she passed, then as she walkedher worth (but anathematisingher youth with all his repertoirehe's a freemason too; for him,He's always with her: either seatedHe sang of grief and parting-time,he sang of lifetime's yellowed page --He sang of love, to love subjected,he's at the club, a real stayer,he saw no point in staying on,he saw that, as in cities, hereHe saw the sad girl's trembling state,he's bowed politely; his attentionhe's called you out -- say, in your soulhe scowls -- and the whole gang are still;he's dreadfully dissatisfied;He sees: in slush, stretched out and keepinghe sends a letter, penned with passion.he sends, a second, then a third.he's first to toast her in the bowl,He's flown to Talon's, calculatinghe's gnawed by serpent Recollection,He's gone away and left his village,he's got consumption. In his anguishhe's happy, yes, he's almost well...He's here -- Monsieur Guillot, my friend.he's host, that's obvious. Thus enlightenedhe should have settled for disarminghe sleeps, away from glare and glamour,he's left sad footprints on the ground.he's lost his self-command, and crazedHe smiled as Lensky talked: the headyhe's moved... you see him from the side.He's neither died, nor lost his reason,He's off -- this ruthless legislatorhe sounds, in lyric frenzy sunk,he's put belle Tatiana instead.he's racing millward like a bird.he's seen it all; with looks and fashionhe stalked the drawing-rooms, remotehe steers her, nonchalantly gliding,he stood there, pensive and forgetful,he stoops and, tenderly confiding,he strove to achieve the appropriationhe struggled to bite back the chillinghe's up the steps, with heart a-quiverhe's viewed the boxes without passion,He sweetened up with fancy's icinghe takes her to a chair, beginningHe thought that Olga'd be confused,he trembles, knows not what to tell;he turns away: I've had enough --he wakes; a bath where ice is floating;He wakes -- and who is this who writes him?he warns his man for duty, stressingHe was a good and simple barin;he was a menace, and a freak.he was a poet in his day.He was convinced, a kindred creatureHe was no fool; appreciatedHe was sweet-natured, and yet wild.He was the slave of a tenacious,He was too young to have been blightedHe was without that dithyrambiche watched the guests and, as he dined,he whirls her through the wood... a hovelhe who has cooled down love with parting,He who has lived and thought is certainhe would have found a normal fate.High ceilings everywhere abounded;High rank, of course, and fashion's glasses,high time he should be on his way.him far enough through wild and waste.him prove it, writing after me.himself just like a simple chap.his acts and words to suit our end?his awkwardness, he's hardly saidhis beasts outdoors at dawn, nor ringinghis beefsteak with champagne, or drownhis bow was wholly unaffected.his children and his faithful wife,his choice could shock or might offend;his collar in its beaver braidinghis conscience's record, and sohis converse gave Onegin pleasure;his destiny) without a smilehis dreams, while she whom they're about,his dull, sick look, his dumb reproach --his elegies flow like a brook.his epigrams topped up with bile.His father died; and (as expected)His father failed to understandhis foolish face; more pleasant yethis freedom, in his youth's first flower,his French valet, Guillot, is therehis gaze at Tatyana alone --His hair was fashionably curled,his head upon her shoulder... blazehis heart was plunged! A sudden sound,his hours to dreaming them away:his housekeeper and her departmenthis humbly suppliant approach,his illness lends him courage andhis itching verse, Monsieur Triquethis life till dawn's already making,His life went sailing in calm weather;his lyre, now stilled, in its high missionhis mind, in judgement still unsteady,his mind's eye focused on the hintedhis mind, so cold and so precise.his mother taps the window-pane.his nag has smelt the snow, and plantedhis nature would be changed and steadied,his neighbour entered at a rushhis news has set the party humming!his parents' patriarchal dusthis pistols, laid them in their case,his pup to grace the sledge, while hehis serfs rejoicing at their lot.his sobs, where his live tears were flowing;his song was limpid in its tunehis soul still blossomed out, and lightedhis soul to a delicious rapturehis soul with murmurs of distress.his spindly, shaggy nag. As fitting,his strangeness, wholly unaffected,his Strasbourg pie, or point a moral,his style breathed love, and not the gibinghis Sunday game of cards with me.his sweetheart faithful to her grief.his tale of youthful love, narratedhis tea with rum quite left behind,his thoughts were on a distant goal:his thrusting horns, and as he passeshis transports, and the marriage-bedHis unexpected apparition,his virulence that made you smile,His visitor from the beginninghis weary head, and softly droopingHis wife, just like Tatyana, hadhis wit, according to the ruleshis young heyday's supreme employment,Hm, hm. Distinguished reader, tell mehoar-frost and sun in freezing weather,Hoar-frost that crackles with a will ishold half the world still unreleased,homestead, before her parents' gaze,honest devotion to the good,hope sting it, then we'll try deployinghope that he's had no time to fashionHoraceHorses and coach are spliced in marriage;Hours pass; no answer; waiting, waiting.how are your kith and kin today?how bold or bashful there, and herehow brilliant with its instant tear!How can one not love mother Moscow?How could she? why, he'd never heard...How did you come to marry, nyanya?How dull are acting and evasion,how dull to work for the correctionHow early he'd learnt to dissemble,How early on he learnt to troublehow envious was I of the wavesHowever closely he inspected,However has he earned so vicious,however much her soul has faltered,however scarlet; free from errorhowever strongly she has beenHow fearful, in and out of seasonhow fearful, too, is my obsessionHow heavy, and how near to sobbing,how I interpret this expression:How long can you... ? Dearest kuzina!How long has he been on the scene?How long he'd been here, was her query,how long is it? And since I fedhow many follies were engendered;how many lines of verse, and themesHow many times I made a toyHow often on the steep CaucasianHow often, when the sky was glowing,How often, with her sweet communion,How often would I fall to musingHow oft she'd lead me, by the Taurichow pleasantly the stages pass.how proudly, how divinely gleaming,how sad the scar of passion's knife:how sensuously her eyes are dreaming!How slow you are at guessing, nyanya!How soft his glance, or at discretionhow soon the bounds of rank and stationHow Tanya's grown! I pulled your earhow they remind me of your stem,how to engage in talk that drewHow well he donned new shapes and sizes --how well he knew the way to hurt --how well she'd studied her new role!human reaction, every speechhumbly I heard your lesson out?hunts cheeky flies, with swatter sweeping,Hurrah! let's start congratulatinghusband and father as my lot;Hussar and friend of Pushkin.Hussars on leave are racing hitherhymnal as, endlessly unfurled,hymns of the ages never sound.I acted thoughtlessly or not:II am in love; leave me alone.I am in love, Tatyana's wailingI ask you, each and every poet!I buttonhole a wandering neighbourIII can see naught, as Hymen's foe,I can't sleep, nyanya: it's so stifling!I close. I dread to read this page...I could describe here his attire;I count each hour the whole day through;Idle again by dedication,I'd love you, but inside a day,I'd not have known you, therefore II'd nothing to attract your humour...I do, I do. Well, where's he gone?Idol mio or Benedetta,I don't know why, but for my friendI don't mean that she never shivered,I don't see what's so bad about it.I drag my footsteps hither, yonder;I dread your stern regard surmisingI drop my hero... I'll be truthful:I'd still like dances to this day:I feel a brotherly affection,I feel a small foot in my hand;if her cross mood was at its worst --if I'd possessed the slightest reasonif I had power to choose your fashion --if I, like you, had been a bard.I find myself no longer equal;I find no sense; the truth is this,if I show wit in jesting thus.if, motionless, no life appearing,if not slow-witted, might have known.If only Lensky'd known the burningIf suddenly aloft she spiedIf Tanya'd had the chance of learningif you come with me, they'll be flattered;if you'd still been with me, dear friend,(if you'll turn back to chapter one)I gave my word, alas, though nowI gave no rein to sweet affection:ignores approval's friendly clapping,I grasp a stirrup with affection,I had most surely never reckonedI have no leisure to recall;I have to drag my feet to it.I hear the wrath of your reproach.I hear you say. But can you seeI(I, , I, IV, V, VI,) VI introduced my saucy MuseI keep them, and will quote them here:I kept in mind an ancient storeI know (and seek your exculpation)I know, Godsent one, I'm protectedI know it all: my secret acheI know it, in the thoughts of allI know it's now in your discretionI know too surely how it ends.I know to what malicious laughterI know your heart: it has a feelingI lack the strength required to sayI leave the verdict in your hand.I(I like a friendly conversation,I liked his quality, the dreamI like to tell the time by dinnerI'll catalogue each simple sayingI'll conjure up that swooning fashionI'll end my tale some other time.I'll feed the journalists for dinnerI'll float in gondola's seclusion;I'll gladden your imagination,I'll go, I'll go! -- and in a stirI'll just remark, my verses talkI'll make them spar another round,I'll part them, bring them back together;I'll save this blossom on the shoot,I'll say: with past ideals in viewI'll set two ages by the ears.I'll sprinkle you with holy water,I'll stop that tempter from depravingI longed, like every breaker hissing,I love my Tatyana too much!I love their feet -- though I confessI love you (what's the use to hideimagination, with such reason,Imagine it: quite on my ownI make magnanimous confession,I'm altering my destinationI married. I beseech you, go;I'm at your service to protect you;I'm blind to every apparition;I meant to paint, with Alban's glory,I'm good for nothing now, my sweet...I'm grateful now with all my heart.I'm grieving still, but no more tears,I might have said a word, and thenI might have seen you, heard you speakimmortals picked by fate for when,I'm much afraid that bilberry wineI'm near to sobbing, near to weeping!...I'm old, my mind is blunted, Tanya;I move in the grand monde? that rank,impart such lessons as you please!impatient, hatred flaming high;impatiently on the mill-dam,importune with my lyre, wheneverI'm sick, my dear, I'm sick indeed.I'm terrified -- so let it be...I must translate -- there's no presuming --I must wake up with the convictionI'm wandering in a world of dreams...I'm yours, in a predestined fashion,in Adam Smith was his diploma;in albums, blunted the censoriousin all its mystery. Hymen's teasing,in all the world could take my heart!in a melodious, flute-like tone.in any picture of this kind:in a peaked cap, all dust and fluff, --in a still stream that never dries.In backwoods, how d'you pass this season?in bed, a young man, stiff and chilled;in boxes or the rows of stalls.in britzkas, kibítkas and sleighs.in casual letters of confession --incendiary looks are slinking,in corners whispering girls concur;in country towns and suchlike placesin dark attire the new-born day.in darkest forest depths and drownedin darkness in her room, or treatedIn days of carefree aspirations,in deep anxiety of mind.in deepest grasses, quite alone,in deepest thought at the chess-boardin dreams and cards and their prediction,in dream toward the woods and plains,In duels a pedantic don,in due succession; hers is liftedI need to rest from all this rhyme:in empty deeds and futile toils.I never lived or wrote for praise;in everything she sees there's notinexorably wed to duty,in fact a thorough fop, no less.in fact by some quite different thought.In fact one day a note came flyingin far Moldavia, fit for pity,in fashion's din, at still of night,in fashion that's half-glad, half-anguished:in father's or old uncle's book,in first place -- listen, am I right? --in flannel, and an old fur cap.in flowers of spring it's drinking dry:In French Onegin had perfectedin friendly gatherings where I read,in front of you, on every hand,in frosted bottle, for the poetingenious London has been sendingin goods and fame! But the sad-soundingin gossip's rambling and discursionin grief that nothing else could mend;In heart's affairs, a sweet beginner,inherited from earlier daysin her once more has come alive.in her own home. She never tookin her torn heart -- a fickle gleam;in his defence, and smash it up;in his first dream of passion's fruit,in his small shack, will listen wellin indescribable elation,in indolence and in rampageousin ink with colour-wash above;In languid silence, or the flamein lives that were just dawning then.in loaded carriages, migrate,In love with fame, by freedom smitten,in Lycée gardens long ago,in manifesting, as he could,in midst of a poetic dream,in midst of trouble, storm or din.in morning time he'd read a book...in music's own bewitching fashionin my long task, be my upholder,in my petition an approach,inns don't exist; but in a freezingin Olga everything expresses --in one so slothful, so hard-bitten?in order daily, chez Véry,in others' houses she may sayin other things you come off best:I noticed once, at our chance meeting,in our affair, the interventionin our first ages), from no placein pairs, their hunger driving stronger,In passion's sluicing rain they freshen,in, past concierge, up marble stairin play with her obedient dollin question, gossip, news and tale,in quiet flood. A beetle whirred.in quilted coat, where rays were gleamingin quilted dressing-gown adorned,in rose-trimmed bonnets, but malicious;in rural calm's most secret place!in Russia among the common people. Pushkin's note.in Russian never found expression,in Russian winters thrilled at seeingIn second place the poet mightin secret judgement what he'd done,in sensible old-fashioned style.in sheepskin coat with scarlet sash.in showing how to tell apartinside a pocket Triquet nurses,inside the Larins' house fell mute.in sighs and boredom and deceitsin silence all day she'd remaininsists, when the mazurka ends,in sledded coaches and coupés,in solitude, as at the startinspires your lute to sounds of sighing?installed in me a different devil,in stars upon the river-brink.In stead of happiness, say I,instead the chance to get acquaintedIn such an album, friends, I tooin sultry sleep, in lonely bed,In summertime -- for he was leadingIn swarms around Tatyana ranging,in taffeta of mourning black.in talk, so fruitless and so stale,In Tanya, what a transformation!in tears and violent tossing ventedinterior décor in the endin terms of poetry or passion --in terms where not a word was spared:in that new couch, no sleep for certain;in that one sound, for Russian hearts!In the dark sky, a shooting starin the deep stillness of the night,in the expression of its being,in the far backwoods' deepest heart,in the full beauty of its frown;in their gay glass, the borrowed lightin the mazurka he was light,(in the romantic style, we say,in the salon new faces meet,in the saloon, brocade-surrounded,in these last years all mixed and fluttered.In the two sisters' rooms extended,In the white heat of some dissensionIn this, dear reader, if you know it,in this fifth chapter of my work.in through the door, at swallow's pace,In time past, objects of affectionin time (to quote the calculationIn time, who knows, the agitationinto a corner, gently makes herinto a modish tyrant's keepinginto an unbecoming brawl.into a small quit-rent -- and gotinto his look, the exhibitioninto the allée, face to face,into the cups its darkling stream --into the fields, surveys the morning,into the mud, a drunken goner,into the pan. Securely gripping,into the social whirlabout;into the tomb's mysterious shade;into the tomb's wide open portals,in triumph you'll see winter through!in twilight of allées of lime.in unison repeat the cry:in untold beauty close at hand.in vain on my unworthy soul?invariably, as time went on,invention sparkled, then gave wayin warmer airs was half dispersed.in which, dear friends, we're all afloat!in which his hero's mould was cast.in which our hero used to dwell.in which so lately it aboundedin which the rhymester-man-of-fashionin winter, on the cast-iron fender,in winter was her heart's delight.In winter, when for longer timein you a tender pulse was beating,in your calèche of foreign cast --in your pursuit I've come to know it:I only write like this, you know,II own it: tender Parny's rhymeI pray God grant his soul salvation,I put your genius to the test,I read with secret pain, and neverI really dote upon the word:I reckon, by God's will. My VanyaI regularly take much pleasureI roam by the secluded lake.is a compulsive bore by reasonis agony, if I may speak,is all those stubborn lips desire!I? Saturday. The invitationis brought to table at full speed.is calling us, for ever calling --is dear to me, for it has broughtis death, not pain. So gently glidingis deep in love, just like a boy;is dimmed. Down there the valley soonis dressed, undressed, and dressed once more?I see another problem looming:Iis either the distrait Vampire,is finished, and I've looked it throughis firmly cast. I don't know whetheris forced to crucify himself,is graven on that face of stone.I shall set out on brand-new waysIs he a Melmoth, a Childe Harold,is he who's never felt its will,I signal to each passing sail.is in voluptuous languor dressed,is in your poetry enshrined?is it not true that Russian speech,is it that she, poor simple sweet,Is it that we've become officiousis Kit to every maiden's ear.is known today; only a soulis lost in obstinate reflection;is mincing manners -- nothing more.is needed, nothing's left to tell.is on his feet -- in utter stillnessis only Olga: he relievesIs Others' View, that clever lyric,is out of fashion in our time.is represented rather truly,is sad old moon's... Hark! snow is creaking...is seized by Tambov's poet-sage;is softly, indolently sleeping,Is spleen his trouble, or the dumbis that my feet lack strength to gois there to lisp its pack of lies.is the supreme reward. Precisely,is this -- one sees from here the party:is this the man that you were seeking?is this then what you can't forgive?is this the riddle's missing clue?I still find Gallicism deliciousis tinsel on a life I hate;Istómina, thronged all aroundI suffered once from all the madnessis where old master took up station,is with dull trash that can't cohere:is yawned away with friends and wifeItalian nights, when I'll drink inIt all seemed new -- for two days only --It baffles me. But I'll repeatit blabs, and spills them in its tracks.it brought back Tanya from her trance.it can't be youth's distemper -- love?It fascinates by its assuranceit frankly, I'm a firm adorerit had its epigram-potential...it had no sparkle of sensation,I thank him without reservation,II... ...it held me captive; tit for tat,III think I'm happy. Time to go,I thought, she'll go this time, perhaps;it hurts, he laughs, and all in vainIt is a friend I sing, a youthfulit lacked, of course, poetic heart,it led him, in these early sessions,it mastered him in slow gradation;it may be late, but it's a start.it melts, away it rushes, racingit needs no gold if a supplyI too -- when I recall SvetlanaI trust my fate to your direction,It's agony to watch the hollow(it's all the same -- you well correct us),it's also true, in battle's rapture,its barely noticeable stream.its due oblivion, in the hushit's easy, without too much fooling,its echoes, its belated urging,it seems that he forgot us all.its furrow through the powdery icing;its glaring feasts, and shrill events,its grip on him, forgot to countit's hidden deep in gloom and dust.its image, then to swoon beforeIt's late. A breeze begins to roister,it's late, time's passing... not to mention,it's like a vanishing newcomer --it's my profession; he was wearing --its natural right to rave and flare.its newness with our faded days,it's new to us, beyond gainsaying;It's nothing. And away he flew.It's nothing, nurse, nothing, I say...it's not in him to bring me bliss.its nullity I've always hated,It's over. Supper is proceeding.its own perfection everywhere,its pristine charm: heeltaps, and leaps,It's right and proper that you went.its sails go flap-flap as it prances;it's time! and freedom hears my hail.It's time: kind-hearted, idle creatures,It's time she went. But what can IIt's time to drop astern the shapeit stirs her drooping soul to boundit stood, defiant of destructionIt's true, I'll not misrepresent them,It's true, the magnet-like attractionits views, its passions, or its cares!its wayward tricks, its violent surging,its winds had blown him far off course.its work, its torture, its enjoyment,it's yes or no, but never sir.it touched with reverie her leisure,it was goodbye, Monsieur l'Abbé.it was quite torn in half and breaking.it was that he'd been truly stirred,it will be our descendants whoit would be painful to departit.IVIVIVIVI've drawn a plan and a projection,I've dreams and years past resurrection;I've known too many a haughty beauty,I've learnt new sadness; but in thisI've learnt the voice of new ambition,I've no one here who comprehends me,I've paid my due to classic art:I've run a mile, I must avow,I've seen how, trustful in his blindness,I've wasted too much life away!IVIván Petróvich still is dumb,IVIVI walk the shore, I watch the weather,I was just thirteen years of age.I was Onegin's friend that season.I weep, and pray for your protection..,I weep... In case there still should lingerI would have chosen none but youI would have found a friend, another,I would have had the indiscretionI write, my heart has ceased its pining,I write to you -- no more confessionIXIXIXIXIXIX(IX,) Xjaws masticate as minutes pass:jealously, shyly, I've importedjealousy's flame, to light desire;Jean Lepage, Parisian gunsmith.Jean Sbogar, by Charles Nodier, .jointly would tread life's humble way!Julie, ou la nouvelle Héloise. by Rousseau, .just as she'd always been, she trippedjust as the Poet paints himself.just at this crisis of his gale,Just before dinner, from his laboursJust facing Tanya's where they're sitting;Just half a glass more... that will do...Just let yourself be your whole care,just like a casual guest who mightjust like a shadow, or a wife.just like, on turf, your fleeting tread.just look, and never mind the chatter...just now of wrestling with his shade,just send your grandson on his way.just sentries to each other calling,just there, is talking to the Spanishjust what the nightmare signifies.just yesterday. And since your christeningkept asking: "shall I live to see"...Killed!... At this frightful word a-quiver,killing each evening off like that?knowing the offender, he'd been frightenedlacing her stays up very tightly;ladies at the fireside confer,Ladies came over, crossed to meet her,ladies of riper years, deliciousLadies of such a cast, I think,ladies who glide on waxed parquet.La morale est dans la nature des choses.Lland where I learned to love and weep,land where my heart is buried deep.Lasciate  ogni  speranza, voi ch'entrate.  Our modest  author  hasLa, sotto giorni nubilosi e brevi.last many a day, and many a night!last night he'd erred in making fun,Last night, what made you fly so early?lately he married off his boy.late of Tambov, Monsieur Triquetlawgiver to the modish world?lay on the fields; in caravanLleads Olga and Tatyana onleave far behind that city-gate.led to the princess, all a-shiver,Left-handed from the habitationleft her to follow her own line,left quite alone with his own soul,Legends, and mystical traditions,Lel floats about above her head;lend ears to my lugubrious tone:Lending his tone a grave inflection,Lensky all evening, in distraction,Lensky at home awaits the answer,Lensky composed in autographLensky disliked the entertainmentsLensky had a curt word to sayLensky has watched: his rage has blazed,Lensky ingenuously relatedLensky of course was quite untaintedLensky rejoiced. His designatedLensky resolved before the duelLensky, restored to his manorialLensky's estate, there lives and stillLensky's thrown down. The murk is thickLensky, that tragic victim, died...lest he should by some clever tricklest in forgetfulness completelest signs of casual weakness drewlet evening pass, tomorrow too --let fall his pistol on the ground.let me acquaint you on the nailLet me look back. Farewell, umbrageouslet no more such digressions lurklet not the poet's soul of passionLet others learn from his example!Let's go, our friendship's worth the labour!Let's go. The friends, all haste and vigour,let's go together, take a rest...let's go where, winding all the timelevy their tribute on the plain;LIlickspittles who adore their crawling,lies bright, and vast beyond perceiving;lies in a coverlet that ripplesLIlife's real meaning would have found him;lifts her from bed as it foretellslift up the gauzes of her veil,light as a shadow, shuns a meeting,light dreams for new ones... so we seelightly attired, like the creatorlike a drunk traveller in a shelter,like a majestic moon, she driveslike a sweet child. She'll never say:like a true friend, to speak my name.like Chatsky, he arrived to fallLike convicts in a dream releasedlike Delvig when he's dining drunk.like fields in spring when storms arrive.like fluff before Aeolian breezes;like foliage in the rotting fall.like irksome phantoms, null as zero.like mindless youth, the waltz goes byLike modish parquetry, the riverLike modish rhymes that lack all reason,like native idiom from their lips?(like passion's dream, that other revel)like Regulus, that god of honour,Lines discarded by Pushkin.LLILIlions adorning gateway postsListen to me without resentment:listless, impatient, for the poundingLILILIVlived to the age of twenty-six;lively, capricious, and inane...liven the drowsing of my heart,LIVLIXLlocked himself up inside his denlog cabin a pretentious-teasinglong life to our dear friend, Bordeaux!long, lively tales from wonderland,long, long ago... no, that could belong since, like brother linked to brother,long since unstirred by praise and fameLongtime inside this modish cloister,looked down in an access of hate,looked on a river: far awaylook here, as a provincial missLook quickly to the left, d'you hear?looks at him with a steady gaze,look through the pane, and squash the flies.Look to the left? where? what's the matter?Lord Byron's portrait on the wall,Lord Byron, with his shrewd caprices,lorgnettes of jealous fashion-leaders,Lost in our backwoods habitationlost them without regret's contusion,Louder and louder sounds the wrangle:loved someone else, not her intended,Lovelace, or Grandison, or neither;Love passed, the Muse appeared, the weatherLover of Valérie, by Madame de Krudener, .love's crown, delectable, awaitedLove's frantic torments went on beatinglove's melting dreams shall fill my rhyme,Love tyrannises all the ages;LLVLVILVILVLVLLXMadame de Staël, Bichat, Tissot,made all fates look the same... and somade London's dandy his professor.made over to them his whole lot,madman, can you forget their print?Magazine () edited by A. Izmaylov.magic of sleep had started claimingmaiden in this superb, unthinkingMaidens, pretty maidens all,maid-servants from the whole estateMaidservants on the beds just nowmake Juvenal his text, or bettermakes to her nurse low-voiced remark:Make way, make way, goes up the shout;MalfilâtreManzoni and Chamfort, perusingMartin Zadéka fails to mend;Martin Zadéka was the siren,maybe bore off with it for evermay chorus, when she comes in sight,may spend a century in flayingmay then amuse my glad decline.may wind up my career as poet;means of  which Pushkin mimics  poor Lensky's own style... but  the rich andmeantime she'd give the maids a beatingmeanwhile a hallboy handed cream;Meanwhile another new landownerMeanwhile, attired for morning strollingMeanwhile my novel's opening sectionMeanwhile Onegin starts to languish:meanwhile the local Cyclops, aimingMeanwhile the news of Eugene comingmeanwhile with a dissembler's dutyMeanwhile with pain her soul was girdled,Melmoth the Wanderer, by C. R. Mathurin, .Melmoth, whose roaming never ceases,Melpomene wails long and loud,men made their bows, and sought her eye;men's thoughts, their plots, the words they speak,menu, hung up for show, excitesmethodical by disposition,meticulously; in my fictionmidst crones with endless tears to shed,might have resounded long and loudmilitary-foppish, diplomatic --mills, lands and waters -- he whose goodsMillyonaya, a street  parallel to the Neva, and one block away frommisunderstanding, noise, and blame!Moments of silence, quite unbroken;moment the assembly seemed to shake...Monsieur l'Abbé, the mediocre,monsters the maiden stood revealed.moonscape, the half-light overall,more and more bored by yearning's text,more and more brightly still they blaze.more closely at the grammar-book;more joy still when with mute insistencemore searching than Chateaubriand;more tender than it used to sound.more thoroughly, thank God, the creatureMore tolerant in his conceptionMore wine, he calls, to drench the flamingMoscow has beauties and to spare:Moscow... how many strains are fusingMoscow, loved daughter of Russia,Moscow's the place, the marriage-fair!mother implored me; my sad stationmotionless as one soundly sleepingmountains are piled on every carriage,mountains will part; below the deep,moved and surprised, she stays serene,moves the young watcher (as was knownMuse of the epic, bless my work!Mushrooms in brine, for winter eating,must be my theme, if you'll allow.must be to hold in detestationmust now employ my pen; somehowmy Africa, where waves break high,my carefree song would thus revealMy dearest heart, you're sick and ailing.My dear good sir, I'm short of money.my declaration may give rise!my disillusioned glass, and yearn,My early bird! you know, last nightmy fate, it leads me to what end?my father blessed me. So I'd spendmy friends, I need to pause a spell,My friends, the bard stirs your compassion:< My gaze pursues them... but on stationmy giddy mistress made me proud.My goddesses! Where are you banished?my golden days when spring was dear?My goodness, how the years do fly!My heart awaits you: you can turn itmy hours in fear and bitter crying.my house, my evenings, all that state --my husband for his wounds in battlemy inept pupil, at that hour,my last poor lepton for a sup!my life in a domestic plot;my little feet, where have you vanished,My love for it is just as tender,My mind is fuddled. Tell me, nyanya,my noon is here, and that's the truth.My pen, as once, no longer hurriesmyself and Eugene, lest a readermy soul had heard your voice ring clear,my soul in secret gave survival;My soul's like crystal, and tomorrowmy span, that fortune's jurisdictionmy strange, incorrigible man.my student cell: she opened upMy sweet, God warrants me your debtor.My sweet, my dearest heart, I'm old,(my tale's beginning here repeats);my task, so vivid and so seriousmy tedious taste for feeling free.my thoughtless pen has stopped designing,my tongue kept drawing from the heart --My uncle -- high ideals inspire him;my word; no welshing, as I live. >my wretched Lensky in his heartnanny, companion of my youth;Napoleon here, intoxicatedNapoleon's our sole inspiration;Nasce una gente a cui 'l morir non dole.Neckerneed not have bristled like a beast;neighbours and friends in kindly group,neighbours in high content are wheezing;Neighbours in whispered tones are takingneighbour was sure, from this would flownever come and like a spyNever come and overhearnew depths of boredom. No, the same.new guest is gradually progressing,Next day Tatyana, early waking,night of the second, started flaking.no, all devoured by passion's madnessNo, all in her was calm and plain.No answer comes. Another letterNo answer comes. He goes, for betterno artifices of the vain...no beauties of a foreign clime,no boy, to fight or take offence --no brilliant truth, no vivid scene;no deathless truths, nothing scholastic;No doubt about it, it's Eugene.no dream. You'd scarce arrived, I reckonedNo, early on his heart was coolingno, even her eyebrow never quivered,No, every minute of my days,No feast, no welcome-gifts -- with fireno, forests are the sole retreatno fuss; our belly has the powerno glance so sweet, no sigh so teasing,no haughty stare around the press,No hope! no hope! He leaves the revel,No ice and flame, no stormy weatherNo, incorrect and careless chatter,noise in her ears, glare in her eyes...Noise, laughter, bowing, helter-skelterNo, I was born for peace aboundingno longer does the herdsman chaseNo look, no word for him: she's chosenNo madrigals were for inscribingno magic fancies of the poet,no mannerism, no affectation,no mansions, no ballrooms, no bards.No matter; fate's decree is just.no matter: hope, in child's disguise,no meaning in or out of season,No moralizing from this joker;no move she makes, no breath she draws;none listens when the others speak,No, never in the hottest fireNo, no, I'm sure the party's small.no noise of gaiety, no timeno, not for long were belles the rulingno, nothing caused his heart to stir,no notice of them. But I've chatterednonsense will earn indulgent looks,no one recalls him or his verses;No one's, I swear by God! in sadnessno one was ever so engrossed:No one will think that worth gainsaying,no paradise can stay serene.No path to see: the snow has driftedno proud pretentions to success,no, quite naively I'll retellnor crawled in suppliant attire.nor from the bath-house roof be clearingnor his, who sings of Finland's maid.nor turned a poet. In the burstnor will my scribbling in such booksNo secret crimes, and no perditions,No, she's already pledged her wordNo sleep, beneath that silken curtain,no softball for the winds of fashion,No, soon she changed her old demeanour:no sound by which her soul is stirred.no spark of fun in all its rot!no, Tanya's more endearing far.not bad at all; and then each soulnot cold, but also not effusive,No tearstains, nothing. Wrath aloneNotes to Chapter FiveNotes to Chapter FourNotes to Chapter OneNotes to Chapter SevenNotes to Chapter SixNotes to Chapter ThreeNotes to Chapter Twonote.not even by chance, once in a while,not even in her earliest age;not every day could he wash downnot for the first time he succeedednothing could alter or could tirenothing more lovable than he.nothing was barred beyond discussion --nothing you did gave cause for blame:no time to pick it up -- she's dyingnot once a day a thought will quiver,not only by Evgeny's eye;not only pain, too much to meet...no trace of ink, no spots, no stains.not separation's chilling power,Not so? No, sirs, the ode's the thing,not the plain, timorous, dejectednot to see Olga; in a fretNovember stood outside the door.no vision of her fields is dawning.no vulgar epigram too much,Now all was still. Tatyana slept.now a protruding branch assails hernow as before, inside my breast;Now brooding thoughts hold his attentionnow, by green tablecloths awaited,now crush with sorrow's dull deploymentnow dazzled by one thing's effulgence,now disenchanted with the next,Now don't suppose... let no suspicion...now even Didelot's tedious stuff.Now, faced with this enormous revel,Now for the first time she's escortednow free, I once more weave togethernow golden autumn's just arriving.Now hear the friends in dialogue:Now here's a letter, as you see,Now he's returned, what role's he dancing?now I've forgotten all I knew.Now Latin's gone quite out of favour;Now, Lensky, would it be so badnow Lovelace's renown has fadedNow march. And calmly, not yet seekingNow Nature's tremulous, pale effectNow nearer... hooves... and in the yardNo word: another day goes by.no word came flowing from his quill;now pay attention, I beseech,Now powder's greyish stream is slippingnow sensitive, and now carefree,Now, she devours, with what attention,Now she's alarmed; in desperate worrynow she's bereft, and just the samenow sweet, his slumbers are distraught.Now Tanya's groaning, now she's sighing;now ten has struck, his wheels are rolling,Now that the British Muse is ableNow the mazurka sounds. Its thundernow things are changed, now we resembleNow, to my cost it may be truenow warmth and blossom are on hand,no years of absence past returning,Nursed in the orient's languid weakness,Nurse, I'm not ill; I... I'm in love.O Adrian waves, my invocation;Oak-floored, and simple as a stable:objective of his thoughts and joys:oblivion of life's stormy ways,O Brenta, I'll see you in dream;odd volumes from the devil's shelf,O dreams, o dreams, where is your sweetness?OE devotedly inlaced.of absence on my wandering ways!of a delicious, guiltless dream...of any Bréguet: and in passingof a provincial ingénue,of ardent speech, that aching flowof aunts and mothers, and the thrallof blind Fortuna and of menof Bogdanóvich's refrains.of boiling youth did I desireof calculated slander should,of calm and reason, when the flameof certain ladies' tiny feet.of chalk the window-panes have taken.of childish pranks: a chilled reactionof children, though as young as they,Of course, the love of tender beauties,Of course. Yet fashion's wild rotation,of course! you're bidden there next week.of Dian's visage, in our fanciesof distant countries, of moonlight...of eloquence, and just the sameof entertaining the half-dead:of Eugene, cold as all creation,of evening, and those tears, the balmof every funeral far and wide;of fallen glory. Well! don't wait,of far-away Onegin's name.of fate, and life, each in its turnof finishing its book, but earlyof five more steps they went, slow-gaited,of goblets, tall and slender pretties;of gossip, and set comment hummingof grammar, Russian language too.of Gulnare, he would play a cardof happy love. For I have beenof her own horses, not the post,of hills has hid the moon; for certainof his intent; and a reactionof his Ochákov decoration!of his own room, how cruel spleenof hope and gloom, romantic-fashion,of hope is somehow still survivingof hope sometimes disturbs my heart;of house-familiars stands dismayed...of human friendship, holy men,of husband's friendship -- worst of all!o fields -- to you I'm vowed at heart.of inexperience would have passed,of innocence: a lily bloomingof instant thoughts, a fleeting traceof its unvarnished monochrome.of jealous girls, devote its strain?of jealousy has made her start,of jealousy, to seem to trembleof kindling smiles in ladies' eyes.of ladies and of freakish fops.of ladies' heads, and ladies' feet;of language which, so long ago,of leaves that autumn killed for good,Of Lensky's fate they said no more --of life's repast betimes, nor soughtof light that flowering fields reflected:of listening like a judge-supremeof lovelorn girls was nothing new?of love's anxiety. Blessed is heof love so timorous and gentle.O flowers, and love, and rustic leisure,of many distant lands he sangof mind got clarity new-found;of mocking turn, or else a breederof modish belles the modish foe,of moralistical persuasion,of Morpheus had induced reliefof Moscow in the mournful daysof Muses' offspring; sitting downof neighbouring owners of the earth --of Neva's proud imperial water,of old-lime hospitality.of Olga: love's that kind of bore!of oligarchical converse,of one sole thought holds him in keepingof other's thought -- a splendid goal;of our first meeting face to face,of passion's out, and its whole mannerof perfect bliss in you. Enough!of philosophic brains, aboutof philosophic isolation,of pity for my wretched state,of pity: in his silent bow,of plains where boredom reigns complete,of prejudice that's never beenof raging passion's surge and rollof ranks and ages so diverse.of recompense beyond endurance,of Richardson and of Rousseau.of rugs, and carpets' rich refinement.of Russian verse, its force in action, --of ruts that grace our fatherland.of secret pain... but it's now ratedof secrets, like a friend but dearer,of seeing the world? what on earth could be better?of sense and judgement. For his partof sighs, and compliments, and fire;of simple product supplements it.of social buzz and modish riot,of solitude, and peace abiding!of something vague, some misty clime;of spires and belfries, in a cupof spring he lives, he's energetic;of sudden brightness... it's too curious...of sumptuous flowers and luscious fruit.of sunlight makes it flash and crumble,of swaddling clothes -- already blighted!of swooning, Tanya nearly dies;of tales of girls, and ghosts, and lore:of Tanya's image... Ah, how greatof tears will cloud her tender gaze.of tempests, in what raging oceanOften of course you'll have inspectedOften she halts against her will,of that old duellistic fox,of the cotillion's endless themeof the dull shores of my disfavour,of their society turned her savage,of the most harmless, hopeless trash.of the old Tatyana. Eugene triedof the Terpsichorean foot.of the two girls; their premonitionof the whole world, her nurse alone,of this our novel we reported,Of those who heard my opening pagesof time between the wolf and dog.)of traveller's tedium at its peak:of trumpet, dagger, mask and sword,of Twelfth Night's chillest, iciest air.of unaffectedly fantasticof useful objects that the curiousof virgin fancy, and againof waiting for the dawn to blush,of wandering tribesmen; while the ravageof whispering woods where my Eugene,of wild repentance and devotionof work made him feel sick, and stillof your slim prints! though this be treasonof youth, so tender, so intense?Oh God, what did he think! A dreamoh! her young dove, the natural hearerOh, I've no strength... I'm tired, my chest...Oh nurse, a favour, a petition...Oh nurse, I'm sad, I'm sad, I'm shaken,Oh nyanya, nyanya, I don't question...oh, à propos: Larin's a dearoh, quit your stale, your tedious quacking,Oh, this could all be false and vain,Oh, when, and to what desert banished,old mother winter at her pranks.old prejudice; all men are zeros,old Uncle's end was soon to be.Olga is there, he sees her standOlga's adorer comes a-wooing.Olga's appeared upon the scene,Olga, she thinks, what fate befell her?Olga's no life in her regard:Olinka and her mother sent:Olinka yawned, just like her neighbour,Omens dismayed her with their presage;on a fast stallion from the Don,On an old aunt, who's long been burningon a small bench by Tanya's bed,on a small table's oilcloth sheenon ballroom's looking-glass parqueton billiard-table rests a cue,Once home, he brought out and inspectedonce I too liked it very much;once more, at that beloved sight,once more Corneille's majestic story;once more he can't await the night;Once more he counts the hour-bells tolling,Once more he turned to books, unchoosing,once more renounces world and din.once more that touch is fiercely troublingonce more the love, once more the smart...once on the highway he'd detectedOnce Vyázemsky, who chanced to find heronce, with its foaming and its playing,on Christmas Eve, he wished me joy:on cups of coffee, and then lateron dance-floor, at breakup of ball,on dining-chairs are all prostrated;one customary grief each hour!one customary object gleaming,one day came down that lonely turning,one finds in war amusing sport,Onegin comes, and makes excuses;Onegin, drenched with sudden chill,Onegin, d'you recall the dayOnegin had no word to say;Onegin has outrun us all.Onegin knew enough to savourOnegin looks with eyes of fire:Onegin, my good friend, was litteredOnegin -- now once more my theme --Onegin sits at table too,Onegin's Letter to TatyanaOnegin's life, you see, was holy;Onegin spoke about its flightsOnegin's soul encountered thereOnegin still is slumbering deeply.Onegin's waiting on the ground.Onegin swiftly came to knowOnegin too -- and there to see,Onegin too. Good Lord, at last!Onegin turns, and with a shiverOnegin was assessed by manyOnegin wastes, you'd almost findOnegin without more adoone leads the multitude in thought,one listened to a chief of missionOne melancholy fop, declaringone pair! I pay them memory's tributeone raves in verse like me, and oneone sees a duck and aims his gun,one smoothes the pillows down in bed,one thing inspired his breath, his heart,on Eugene, he was deeply stirred:on Eugene's lips. In his dejection,O, never know these frightful dreams,one wallows in delicious weeping;One winter's worth, you've surely got;on features known, but to that dreary,on Finland's coast a lonely rover --on foot, by seven o'clock, untilon goose's neck, a skull looks cheerfulon her conquest, we leave my sweet;on her smug face a flush of pleasure.on jam, and speeches in regardon kennels, and on kith and kin,on liquor, and on hay brought in,only by rule, and strict traditionOnly from Tanya's heart, no cheering --only in January the snow,Only Tatyana does not sleep,Only the estate provides a settingOnly the ode, that solemn story!only the pallor of heart-breakingonly to Eugene showed their worth;on me, all this has no effect:on modish malice, coarse of grainon most occasions between friends,on my untimely urn be weeping,on Olga; from heart's ache still spared,(on orders which of course presumeon points that all long since agree --on Richardson gone raving mad.onset of the incipient yawn,on springtime grasses of the field,on stage are thumping without cease;on state affairs; there was a wit,On such indifference, such forgettingon the cotillion, as amends.on the dull life that bachelors lead;On the first sheet you'll find a question:on the highroad the wolves come out;On the seashore, with storm impending,On these, with something like obsession,on this unstable life, my friends!On this we'll part; goodbye again!onto the porch, and fussed abouton tragedy; but it's no joke,on unknown ladies in the tiers;on visits to us, and in greetingon waves of far niente floated,on which a carpet has been spread,on which the world is doomed to spin.On whom alone can we depend?on words of foreign derivation,opens the door a tiny slot...open the window, sit down near.oppressed by emptiness of soul,oppressed her like a heavy dream.or, after some dull dinner's labour,Or, as by Lethe's bank he slumbered,or borrow, say, from me, if not.or cause the bursting of his bubble,or cunningly create a quarrel,or did her grief soon find repair?or dim her, dazzle as she might.or else a novel. And my daughteror else a query's wondering hook.or else disturb my mournful tranceor else does nature, fresh and staring,or else, from far off, he could seeor else lifts up a fallen shawl.or else, my friend, how does it look?or else... or else, may God forfend it!or for a lamentable manic,or for that Demon of my dream.or for the modishly luxurious --or Freischütz as it might be playedOr from all notion of enjoymentor half-unwittingly preferredOr he knew how to reconcile themor if himself, with rage arousing,original  metaphor  of the deserted house, closed  inner shutters,  whitenedOr, in your lonely homestead, moping,or joined us poets. His conversionor just grammatical mistakes,or kiss the border of her dress.or languid bosoms; and no visitor letters in a young girl's hand.or make men seriously discussor mother; and in all the playor novelties from fashion's page.or of Istómina, my sweet,or on the granite of the bay.or pine, persuade of yes or no,or pining, Olga's hours were brief.or quizzing-glasses of know-allsor Russia's chondria, for short;or seminarist in yellow shawl!or servants waiting on her pleasure.or simply bow: within her beingor something tenderer still, for you.or some vile agent of perditionor stirring annalistic must;or, sweeter, like a butterflyOr, unconsoled by the returningO rus!O Russia!or, with an epigram-surprise,or worse, to a soirée. UnheardO spring! o time for love! how sadlyothers prescribe a watering-place.others will follow where they tread...our deep economist had gotour disposition being inventedOur evanescent northern summerour friend Katénin brought to bearour hapless Tanya! An emotionour joy in you is warmly taken.our kin are folk whom by professionour lives were flat, and what had firedOur love is what they most abhor;our modern Russia's plague and bane.our Mother Eve: we're never fallingour native speech had never sprungourselves on our landfall. It's true,ours was no Grandison -- not he.our terror is their consolation.our troikas effortlessly dashing,our vessel's long been overdue.out of the hand of that same bard:out of this world will crowd us too.outside and in they star the night;Outside the gate Tatyana partedoutside the house. But you'll be achingoutside, the scarlet rays of dawningover his neighbour's plain memorial,over it a mysterious wreath:over the business of leave-taking,over the modish word ideal,over the note holds in suspensionover the Petersburg pavé --over the slush, where is he chasing?over the waters in a sweep;packed from the maids' wing to the hall.paled, flushed, or lost composure's grip --pale transcript of a vivid master,panes patterned by the finest printer,pans, mattresses, and trunks, and chairs,parade before their mocking gazeParisian taste invents for one --parks, monasteries, towers and ledges,parodies winter in the south;parterres, she runs to rivulet's brink,parting with Olga made him thinkpassion and dreams of pensive cast.passion's rough language talked by others,past all endurance. You're referredpast all the assembly in a whirl,past ice-blocks, blue and squared away,past the grand ladies, see her glide;paterfamilias (unwed),paved roads will traverse Russia's lengthpeasants, and fashion-shops, and sledges,penates, came to cast an eyepen, tears, and rhymes, and all the rest?peopled my sleep, and to their themepeople there were he glorified,perfervid language of the bard,perfidious blow to my inside,perhaps for fame, he was endowed;perhaps -- for flattering hope will linger --perhaps her love could in the endPerhaps however, to be truthful,perhaps no more sensations lumberedPerhaps some secret apprehensionperhaps, though Phoebus warns, I'll seePerhaps to improve the world's condition,Perhaps, when thoughts are all a-quiverperpetually, one goal for dreaming,perplexed... and rooted to the ground.persisted and made no amends.PetrarchPetrovsky Castle; and the famePetushkóv, local Paris, tearing,... ...< Petushkóv's nails and spurs are soundingPikhtín, of the Hussars, was here;piled books, and through the pane the sablepinker than glow of Northern morning,Pistols are out, they gleam, the hammerplagued by her ghastly dream, and triesplay on the window's frosted lace;Playwrights of the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries.Pleasant, in spite of its compression,Please follow me. And here's the innerplunged in reflection's deepest train,Poet and acquaintance of Pushkin.poetic dreams, a brighter fire.poetic in her simple pureness,poetry's sacred frenzy, madePoets, I'll say in this connection,pointed each year, for time to come,poor girl, to drop into a faint,Poor Lensky! Set aside for weeping,Poor Lensky! where the tomb is boundedpoor Tanya more intensely burns;Poor Tanya's bloom begins to languish,Poor Yorick, said he, broken-hearted:Porcelain and bronzes on the table,portfolios nobly illustratedpours out its guiltless frank admission,pouted, and swore in furious passionpraised his fierce courage in its day:Praskovya re-baptized Polina;Prepared for prophecy and fable,prepares himself; and then his verse,present her languor and distractionPresently Olga's ringing answerPresent me, please. You're joking. Never.presses its forebears to the tomb.pretty maidens, romp away,prevailed, and with composure steadyPriam-like agricultural sages,pride's icy calm, the combinationPrince N. respectfully invites himPrince P. Vyazemsky (--), poet, critic and close friend of  Pushkin,Princess Alina. She was stillPrincess, mon ange! Pachette! Alina!prince, who in that dark-red béret,printed among outmoded airs;Prisoner.proclaims where ponderous Pústyakovproficiency to speak and write,profoundly sunk, Tatyana stalkedproject in silhouette the topspromptly had nothing left to give.pronouncing through her nose politelypropped in the door among the press.Protect me from such apparitionProud Albion's lyre is what I follow,Public opinion -- here's our idol,punctilious in his cotton cap,pure passion's flame, and in a tricepurport of other lines; intensepursue his love -- and at one boundpursue his pencil. Everywherepursuits of a monotonous breedPushkin first wrote imperial portraits; but this he later alteredPushkin leaves blank the name of Onegin's model dandy.Pushkin's note.Pushkin's note.Pushkin's poem The Fountain of Bakhchisarai.put a strong staff into my hand,put back the libel on the tableputs out the lamps; the whole brigadeQu'écrirez-vous sur ces tablettes?quickly to O... I mean to that...quite self-absorbed and unaffectedradiance of Dian, sits in painRage died, and jealousy's obsession,raised a dull eye to moon's refulgence,raised nose and shoulders high and wideranges, Lenora-like, she'd rideran through the fields, sheer panic frightrapture was just two weeks ahead;reader, by painting you a sceneReader, I wish that, as we parted --reader, or where you've shone and glittered!Reader, the elder sister nowreader, we must be separating,Reader, whatever fate's direction,reader, you ask, and I'll expound --ready to share our quiet leisurereally more bearable to youreap a brief harvest on their furrows;rebuffed, found instant consolation;recall, by its bewitching cup,recalling earlier loves, did we,recalling earlier time's romances,reduced to sense, not without pain --red wine in tumblers to the brim --Refers  to the  Circassian girl  in  Pushkin's  poem  The  Caucasianreflection or provoked dispute:Reflection was her friend and pleasureregard, and slipped away for good, ...Relations. No-one else at all.relations off, and never spoke.relined and strengthened for the drive;reluctant to exhaust the boy,remains unmoved: still he's persistent,Remember the retort satiric!rendered them tedious to each other;repeats what her mama has taught.replies: We might as well. They walkresigned disposal of your fate.resigned himself to prison's ties,respect, and mercy for my dreaming.results. See note  to Chapter Three.retired, as he, from fashion's stream,retired, forgotten by his brothers,return an answer, blunt or keen,Revenge's hour is near, and afterreverie hounds you, and you findrevive it with another shove --rewards the music of your mindRiding on the lugubrious prairie?Right at the outset of my storyright from the cradle of her days;right in the flower of joyous hope,rigorously though you'd inspect --rings proudly in that sombre name.ripen, and find a new expression --Risen with earliest rays of dawning,River  in  the  Crimea.  The  reference  is to  the  harem  girls inroamed the still forest like a ranger,roofs, flowerbeds, fences, all in white,roses romantically blowing;round Tanya congregate the misses,round the dim river sleep; the curtainRousseau (forgive a short distraction)rumours and threats and premonitions,runs after what is sweet, and vain.rushed to Anisia's room, to plunderRussian pancakes were always served;Russian poet and translator from the French.Russia's old glories and their gleams,Russia's Terpsichore, shall neverrustic to the Russian ear. Nabokov. See note  to Chapter Two.réveillez-vous, belle endormie.sacred to children of Apollo!sadly he mourned for the departed.sad meditations in her look,Saint Petersburg's fine flower was there --same Pom, same husband to the end;sang for the guests above the wine;Satiric poem by Ivan Dimitriev, . The reference is -- summarizingsaw through the window, morning-bright,says the old lady in a croak:Sbogar, mysterious through and through,scarcely recalled their love, their spite;scarce out of bibs, already fickle,scarlet with passion's instant flaring,Schiller and Goethe had refined him,screened by a hill from storm's intrusion,seacoast, to hear in dark of nightSearching the table exegeticseared as by fire, she stopped. Todaysecluded vales, where swans were crying,secretly overheard by you.secret sledge-rides in verse of fire;secure a secret assignation,sed alia tempora! The devilsee also Chapter Seven, XLIX.See Chapter Three, note .See First Snow,  a poem by Prince Vyazemsky. Pushkin's note. ForSeeing herself as a creation --Seeing Vladimir had defected,See note  to Chapter Five.See the descriptions  of the Finnish winter in  Baratynsky's Eda.see with their jugs the milk-girls goself-portraits only -- furthermoreself-willed it may be just the same;Semyón Petróvich, mean and glum,send them good wishes through the mailsensitive ladies of all ages --sent at the Colonel's own behest.sentiment, notebook, verses, allsent to seduce? Resolve my doubt.sequence of dinners stretch away,Serfs chosen as recruits for the army had their forelock cut off.servant of God, and Brigadier.set off our troubled mind comparingset off the ladies like a frame.sets a sonorous cadence rolling --sets out upon her homeward course;sets the wise traveller cavortingset the guests smiling at his arch,set to well-known children's glee:Shade-like, in purposeless obsessionshadows that flit behind the glazingShall I depict with expert knowledgeshall I see you? As Tanya speaksshall make my story grim as hell;shall my sad gaze no more alightshall not attack my lily's root;sharing her in promiscuous fashion,sharpness of wit, and social art,she appears before him, grim and frozen.she blossomed in the graceful waysshe brought her talents, never ceased,she burst into a coughing-bout.she calls down curses on their leisure,she can't; and in her panic hurryshe can't escape at any pace --she can't; Evgeny's pushed the portal,she can't make out a single fractionshe'd cheer my wordless way, and doshe did what nurse advised she doshe'd never join the game selected,she'd never tell them news or scandalshe doesn't see, or doesn't mind;She dreamt of portents. In her dreamingshe drinks it like a priceless potion;She dropped... It's he! Eugene arriving!She enjoys the stately orchestrationShe entered the deserted yard.She faced him, questioning: But you?...she fell in love -- the hour was fated...she fell in love with all the fanciesshe finds, in order alphabetic:she finds in river and in hill.she finds it stifling here... she strainsshe flails around, she tries to shout --she flies as fast as she can go;she flies no more, she's lost her strength.She folds the page, lays down the plume.,she found Evgeny, eyes a-glitter,she found, in labours and in leisure,she grew accustomed, and contented.she guards, in silence and for good,She hates a friendly voice's sound,She hesitates, and doubts beset her:she holds a letter up, and leaningShe knows you? Why, we lived next door.she lacked her sister's beauty, lackedShe'll not see him, her obligationshe'll spin this way and that, and beatShe looked across, felt in her heartShe looks: forgotten past all chalkingshe looks, the room is getting light --she lost the language of the godsShe loved the balcony, the sessionshe loved the steppe-land and its singing,she lowers darkened eyes, unwitting,shelter for trysts at every turning;she never even bit her lip.she never joined, or skipped, but rathershe never read a Russian paper,she once had pined in girlish grief,she peers discreetly through a chinkshe quite forgot -- began to callshe roams the empty garden-plot...she sang of childhood's fun, inditedshe sat there; through her teeth a wordshe saw no friendly figure startingShe's dressed since dawn, dead pale; debating,She's dropped her sash's silken billow;she sees it all. The simple maiden,She's fallen in the snow -- alertlyShe's here, she spreads abroad; she stipplesshe sighed, and in a trance cooptedShe's in the wood, the bear still trails her.She sits down by the window-sill.she sits down calmly on one side,she sits with head sunk on her breast,She sits with Nina at a table --She's mine! Evgeny's voice of thundershe's nearly swooned, she's suffocating;She's not in love? There's no one, ever.She's paid the sunrise no attention,she speeds her footsteps to a race,she spins and, friend of winter nights,she's their great friend, asked in, caressed,she stopped at the loud torrent's bound,She struck one as the incarnation --she's turned up in my garden, bringingshe's up and flying through the airshe treads our earth, and how her breastshe trembles, and with fever drummingshe visited the humble tentsshe walked across a snowy plainshe walked, but just as she was turningShe wanders on without direction.She was alone, lit by the moon.She was like him and always sportedShe was the one who looked as stillshe was unhurried, unobtrusive,She went -- and Eugene, all emotion,she went inside the empty shellshe won't inhale the powdered rime,she wrote in French... what a confession!she yields to it without conditionshine out and bring the world to bliss. >Shishkov, forgive me: I don't knowshocked by their modish pride, and fleeingshortened, or lengthened off the page.Shot through below the chest -- and streamingshould have been analysed when caught,Should your perfections be expendedshowed one a pattern of perfectionshow me the sense. Divine decreeshows freedom's advocate, that strongshows up through trees, all of a grovelshutters are opened and the softshutters are up, and all is paleShy as a savage, silent, tearful,sickroom attendance night and daysigh, and stood up, began to pace;Sign of the urge for domination:Silence was everywhere enthralling;silver with moonlight, in her dreamingsimple old lady; but the liquor --Since dawn, whole families have been drivingSince earliest boyhood he had dotedsince I'm a member of the same.since I stopped sinning years ago.Since then Martin Zadéka's spellsince then my heart was wrenched aside;since, through the mist that dreams arise on,Since when is this? Two years or more.sing about something else at last!sing God knows whom, compose with artsinging in chorus as directedsings as he plaits a humble shoe.Sit down! how strange! it's like the stagesit on a flimsy bench, and layssits imperturbable, and free.sits there beside the window-sill!sits with Limburg's vivacious cheeseslave of the service, was en route.Slavonic god of love.sledges, and tardy dawns togethersleep much, read little, and put downsleep runs from her, she turns and turns...slumber still floats above his head.smiles, and a maiden's tranquil poise,smile, voice and movements, little waist --Smiling through sleep, nature is meetingsmoothe his way out with humour's ointment.So a disabled soldier-man,so all went smoothly after that.so a storm-shadow wraps awayso brilliantly he'd hoax the fools,so circumspect, and so punctilious,so, cursing women's devious course,So down came Tanya, hardly daringso effortlessly can disarm.so fires of spring will bring to birthSoftly the door is opened, enterso, full of heart-felt tribulation,so gloriously he'd fool the clever,So glut yourselves until you're satedso heartless and so detrimental,so, if we want to change, we can!so it was not in any measure,solemn, too long compelled to throttleso Lensky answered the old dear:So Lensky wrote, obscurely, limplySo let it be! for you to keepSo let me with a kind expressionSo, like Childe Harold, glum, unpleasing,solitude, stillness and the night,so long as they're employed in song:some are far distant, some are dead.Some days he's still in bed, and drowses,some disagreeable remarks.some future dunce will point a fingersomehow have got the designationsome ladies preach from Say and Bentham,some minutes long. The words won't fitSome neighbours there have come together;some nonsense thrown up while carousing,someone like you and me, just nice?someone towards whose heart and mindsome other, older spring will gleam,some regimental bard has addedsome splendid lady is referringsomething like spleen, that scourge of Britain,something to fritter and to burn,something to rack his brains about,Sometimes a landscape's represented,sometimes from a fair, black-eyed maidensometimes he'd fall into a trapSometimes his tricks would earn him trouble,sometimes, in reverie's sacred land,sometimes the evening brought togethersome vote a doctor for the case,so much, I'm left no time to speak!So my Zaretsky, as I said,so nearly had them in his power.song, laughter, whistle, bark and champ,So now be off to Neva's brink,so often from her Moscow cousinsoon a great truth came to enfold hersoon all that went without a wrench:sooner or later will relatesoon, infidelity proved cloying,so pious, and so clever too,so pure, so spotless through and through,sorceress-winter's here at last.so, seeing there no rhyme or reason,So she was called Tatyana. Trulyso sketchily possessed by each,so that all three went off to lunch,So the poor butterfly will quiverSo there she stood, forlorn, deserted!So to his wife for presentationSo to strange kinsfolk I was taken...sought in her book, that text of dangerso unforgiving a report?So, verse and prose, they came together.so virtuous that, no sooner seen,So went his sermon. Almost dying,So you, inspired Yazýkov, sobbingspared her the expense she dreaded most --spectacled age divines as well,spelt hazard, ruin and disaster;spends light and darkness in the drearyspirit that anguish had made ill.Spoilt by the habit of indulgence,spoke words of hope? But who are you:spread out its shadow all around --spurs of Chevalier Gardes are clinking,spying my features, as he could,squeezes her hand -- and brings to flowerstalking the momentary weakness,stands in dismay and indecision.stands over my poor nurse's tomb.Stanza discarded by Pushkin, also stanza XXXVI.Stanza left incomplete by Pushkin.Stanzas I to VI were discarded by Pushkin.Stanzas IX, XI, XIV, XXXIX, XL and XLI were omitted by Pushkin.Stanzas VI and IX and XXXIX were discarded by Pushkin.Stanzas XV, XVI and XXXVI were discarded by Pushkin.Stanzas XXXV, XXXVI and XLI were discarded by Pushkin.stare hard at her before exchangingstarted a life of pointless roaming,startling the ingenuous with a jest,stays fixed and focused on a visionstiffening as the hours go by,still after many years in place.still as a shadow, grim and bitter;Still as he was? has he stopped prancing?Still blazing with resentment's fuel,still captivated his young soul.still coughing, hissing, clapping, champing;still dim, through crystal's magic glass,still eats and drinks enough for two.still everywhere the lamps are bright;still filled with Eugene, Tanya wrote,Still for ever, fare thee well.still hardly opened up, from fading.still has Monsieur Finemouche for friend,Still in the porch, exhausted-stupid,still made of tulle, the self-same bonnetstill meek, still deaf as howd'youdo,Still on the board, the beakers hissed,still powdered is Lukérya Lvovna,still shivering in the bitter weatherStill tumbling, devil, snake and Cupidstirred at your gaze, so strange, so gleaming,stood in the door, cherubic, mute,stood thunder-struck. In what wild roundstraightened his wig, and asked her name.straight to his stall, then turns his glassesStraight up the chimney, pipes were smoking.Street lamps go flashing by, and stalls,stretched on a sofa, calls to greet them.Strike the ditty up, my sweets,stripping my soul before your eyes!struck down as if she'd been accused,struck for Evgeny, with its playstudy where he would sleep and feaststuff of the poet's hallowed dreams!stumblingly call to mind he didsuch careless language of surrender?such crystalled scents as best are ableSuch feckless passion -- as I live,such frank tendresse; away they stolesuch good and sensible advice;such is the usual country cooking;such rustic cunning can't be wrong!) --such shadowy and leisured ways,such stubborn brain, and vivid will,Such were a young rake's meditations --Suddenly, from a crest, she sightedsuddenly lowering eyes that languish,suggests a victim richly decked...summits of aspen, birch and lime,summons his people. On the sleighSunk in dejection, she won't hearsurer than friendship or than kin,suspecting wonders would come out.swam on the river's dreaming face,swapped it for odd tomes of Malvina,swaying the artless, waiting onsweet as a lover's kiss, and dear,sweet old tradition was preserved:Sweet-sounding Greek names like  Agathon... etc., are only currentsweet talk with friends. How many dayssweet words by which her pain was banned --swiftly decayed beyond recalltake any novel, clearly tracedtake leave of my lightheaded youth!taken the saucers in their grip,taken your place, though not your throne?Take Olga's shoulders now -- the beauty!takes up an hour or two; at lasttake wing on spite; that serious mentalk that might turn a young girl's head)Tanya begins to understandTanya comes to in utter fright...Tanya is gripped. No comment's madeTanya looks on; her own indictmentTanya (profoundly Russian being,Tanya pursued them with her gaze...Tanya's distress had risked detectionTanya's no child -- it's past a joke,Tanya's no longer quite so frightenedTanya's undressed, and lies in bed.Tanya thanks each one with a phrase.Tanya to all her kin. My sorrowTanya today goes hurrying outTatyana asked. The children allTatyana breathed on the cold pane,Tatyana dear, with you I'm weeping:Tatyana'd rise by candlelight.Tatyana flushed, and started shaking.Tatyana groaned above the tide;Tatyana had a changeling lookTatyana had no dolls to dandle,Tatyana heard Evgeny out.Tatyana hears but takes no part;Tatyana, hiding her condition,Tatyana, hunted by love's anguish,Tatyana in a deep emotionTatyana in low-cut attireTatyana! it's addressed... to whom?Tatyana leaves Onegin kneeling,Tatyana listened with vexationTatyana, lonely heroine,Tatyana looks, her faintness passes:Tatyana looks with pulses racingTatyana lowered her regardTatyana never knew the attractionTatyana now need wait no longer.Tatyana on; Miss Kharlikova,Tatyana pined in secret fashion:Tatyana seeks to attune her ear,Tatyana sees with trepidationTatyana shared with full convictionTatyana's haunted by her vision,Tatyana's heart is rent in two.Tatyana's here, you know I've brought her...Tatyana's husband, now appearing...Tatyana simply lay in bed,Tatyana, sleepless in the dark,Tatyana's Letter to OneginTatyana's letter, treasured everTatyana's love is no by-play,Tatyana's name day celebration.Tatyana's rites are not for me.Tatyana struggles to run out --Tatyana turned with thirsting soul:Tatyana was her name... I own it,Tatyana watched the moon, and floatedTatyana went with them, and spedTell me, our neighbours, are they thriving?Tell me, what's your companion doing?terse words or crosses in the book,than households where the wife must moanthank God, he had no inclinationthank him by curtseying to the dust;Thank you for all the gifts I treasure,thank you for sorrow and for pleasure,thank you for suffering and its joys,thank you indeed. Alike in sorrowthan most. Evgeny, though he knewthan this humiliating passionthan what our sorrowing rhymesters do?that alien scene must I now turnthat all of Russia can't contributethat ardent youth entirely lacks;that, artless, and without concealing,that corps of social legislation --that could sustain it? Only grimness;that even so my wretched stylethat fell, and then began to shiver,that fiery souls' headstrong enthusingthat fills him and in which he lives.that fired his soul, to burn the same;that, for all this, my shame's reportthat from the backdoor he'd be leavingthat generations of new beauties,(that half-pay archivist); and boundingthat he's not honest past all question.that huge ballrooms vibrated under,that I'm just longing to indite --that inexperience leads to grief.that in the usual Christmas scrimmagethat I prefer to Champagne's tide;That isn't our immediate worry:that king of the satiric scene,that lady the hostess was greeting,that lady whose engaging charmthat languid beauty, listens nicely --that Lensky and Eugene, apart,that, like proud Byron, I can drawthat lives, and glitters, and endears,that marble Nina's proved unablethat, meanwhile, pinched and glum of feature,that mediocre dress alonethat Menelaus was quite right --that modish rings were still a-buying.that moment, of a luscious piethat night, in secret, set for two;that not a syllable be utteredthat nubile maid of riper age,that once I spent my happiest days?that one be shot just anyhow --that on the world's staircase there waitedThat point I wouldn't mind contesting,that poison brew; and in your mindthat poisonous worm, despised, degrading,that queen of secrets and of sighing.that raves with poetry can everthat rogue, backbiter, pantaloon,that sat above the stove and purredthat self-same evening where he'd go.that she's ideal, begins preparingthat she's so trustful, and imbuedthat somehow that same day we'll meet...that soul without a moral tie,that spring with me has had its fillthat's the morass, I beg you note,that's the refrain that you should sing,that stretched from Romulus in his primethat strikes him with such force and meaning?That's when I'll sit down to composethat's where my years of youth were spent.that table where the lamp has languished,that there be just one voice which came,< that there existed, for the indulgencethat there his friend Kavérin's waiting;that thievish mouths cannot consumethat this of all things for a swainthat, though polite, was clear as ice.that verse will turn to useful duties;that virgin dream and its confessionthat visitors must be expected.that was less clever still by half.that we enjoy equating chatterthat wicked, loose-tongue chatterbox...that wit embarrasses the dull;that with him to the trysting-placethat world where every man's a criticThat year the season was belatedthat your proud glance is sure to take!that youthful heart. But now at leastthat youthful soul, which pined for sadness;the abstracted poet would bring forththe album of a country missthe allée to the lake, the copse;the altar flame's extinguished now.the ancients have gone stiff and cold,the answer's past all human viewing,The arbitrary rules of passionthe ardent author of the pastthe art he'd studied best of all,the atmosphere of youth and madness,the audience still is busy stamping,The aunts exchanged a look, they fluttered,The  author, on  his mother's  side,  is of  African  descent...the ballroom drove me off my head:the bank, the immobile stream are levelledThe banquet's given no cause for sneezing,the barbs that envy's always spreading,The bearded outrider is sittingthe bear explains: my cousin's here --the bear has raised her in his paws;the bear let out a roar, and heldthe bear -- what next? -- behind her stalked.the beauties in their flimsy dresses,the best revenge one could desire.The better to dispel her sorrowthe big room, further, not a cat.The bitterness was mine -- the icethe blaze of candles, and the tremblythe bleeding tongues, the tufted tails,the bliss that fills me when your throbbing,the blood came smoking from the wound.the blood within my withered heart,the bloom has withered on the bough;The book displayed, not so you'd know it,the books then underwent inspection...the boring wives, the ill-bred men,the boxes; boiling, pit and stalls;the branches all are weighted downthe branches of the oak with flock;the brilliant crackpot: this reactionthe cabinet behind the doorthe carriage of the newly-wed.The censor's tribute, I'll arrange:the charge that poets are unablethe charm of what was grave and plain.the child prepares for protocol --the children spoilt, the mad, the roguesThe choirs of dancers sought their quarters.The château was of a constructionthe circumstances of his captureThe city's early sounds awake her;the clamorous honking geese beganthe climacteric of our life,the clink of rowels, met his hearing;The clock of doom had struck as fated;the coach has reached its destination;the coachmen ring the fire, and cursethe cold perfection of the sky,The comrade of so many days,the cooks prepare the midday meal;the coolness of the sombre glade,the Corsair, or the Wandering Jew.the country cottages and hovels,the country's pretty stupid here!the crash of plates and knives is blendedthe crown of marriage was projectedthe crush, the glitter and the gladness,The crush, the heat, as music blares,the cunning prisoner can quite wellThe darkness thins away; but stillthe darling objects -- don't you know it? --the darling sex is light as down.The days flew past; by now the seasonthe days grew shorter, in the gladethe days that doom has measured out.the deeper in the wood, the morethe doorway opened wide to meet her,the downy woods are greener-tinted;the draught whose blessings are agreed,the driver sits and cuts a dashthe eager players are enrolled --the earlier griefs are what I miss.the early pealing of the bellsthe earth for him grew dumb and closed?...the easier they become to charm,the elegy, grown paralytic,The elegy's just vain protesting,the enjoyment of a friendly drink,the entire story of your fate.The evening passes, and meanwhilethe expanse of fields, so wide, so lonely,the eyes of all, the hooves, the snozzles,the faces met with everywhere;the fateful diet; by depressionthe fear and rage with which I foam!the festal name day has begun.The fields are dark, since evening came.The fire was dying; cinders faintlythe first will never find fruition,the flaming roses of a cheek,the fleeting tenderness that stolethe fleeting works of my creation,the flickering tones of dress and speech,The flirt has reason's cool volition;the floor serves Triquet for his nap,the flower-like pallor of the maiden,the foes, cold-blooded and unspeaking,the fools who sparkle far and wide,the footmen sleep on the pelisses;the foreign words a maiden's passionthe friends' salute she never hearsthe frozen corpse, drives off, and homingthe full fruit of her heart's desire;the funeral monument explains:the gallery claps -- it's bored with waiting --the giddiest hope, carefree and gay,the gift of recognizing whatthe girl he'd scorned in what he deemedthe girl remains there in the gloomthe girl's attentive eyes are bent.the girl's pale charms, her loosened hair,the girls sing out the ancient rhyme:the glare, the fumes in which I live,the grand barouche is on its way.the grand monde finds it out of place.the grey-haired nurse with kerchiefed head;the guardian angel of tradition,the guests are feasted, good and hearty,the guests squeeze closer to the centres;The hall is full of noise and hustle,the hall's without a living creature,the hapless Phrygians all the same,the happenings of the previous night;The happiness of youth is dead,the hare who from afar has seenthe hat, the scowling brow, the chestthe headpiece-text is thus indited --the heartache that they bring lies deep.the heart and all its fragile dreams.The hearth was low beyond all stoking.the heart inside him seemed to shrink;the heart of the professional flirt!the heavenly lights in glorious quirethe herdsman's horn proclaimed the morningthe hero's name's decided too.the highest circles are a bore.the homely scene, take pleasure in it --the horns, and the moustachio'd nozzles --the horrid nightmare must portendthe horror of disgrace and crime,the horse gets wind of them and, snorting,The horses, as they sense the dead,the horses fidget worse and worse;the hostess cries and, moving fast,the hour was late. And now from achingthe household boys in noisy rout;The house is packed out; scintillating,The house, the park... I'll go and see!the hunter in the wood will swearthe idol that she'll most admireThe illness with which he'd been smittenthe impatient conqueror was humbled!the imperturbable princess.the indifferent, or the deadly serious!the inevitable silly asses,the infant year with cheerful greeting:the inmost thoughts that girls can hide.The invalid's glad salutation,their breed would (some years after this)their cloaks; Zaretsky's measured offtheir guests, for all they ate and drank,their hands are dipped in scarlet gore,their hand to grapple slander's cup,their hopes, their pranks, their dreams at night --their journey took them a full week.their joyous way across the ice;their looks and language in deceitTheir look, though, shows no change upon it --their lords, and thwack their palms together;their masters' berries undetectedthe iron figure on the table,their southward flight: one saw approachingtheir table, and their hours of leisure?Their talk, so sound on every matter,their tendency to call, and sit.their unattractive tête-à-tête;the jagged flint's pulled back anew.the jams appear in little dishes;The jealous poet's gloom is lightened!the joys of youth, that festal cup,the jug of bilberry wine is seen.the keys that opened up the hall.The kinsfolk in concerted actionthe kiss where youth and freshness gleam;the ladies' calculated dress;The lady of the house has fled.The Larins kept the old tradition:the latest fashions of the town;the laurel in the old man's crown!the leather rein, to learn the tale,the legatee of his relations --the letter from Tatyana's hand:the letter trembles in her grip;the level tenor of his going,the lies that in the press run rife,the linen stretched on the tambour.the logs; the wild ones have the floor;The Lord God be with you, my daughter!the Lord have mercy on us all!the lover of Julie Wolmar,the lucky bard, and as he dozedthe lust for blood drew them apart?the magic voices of your stream,the maidens all are slumbering deep.the mail explains the time he's taking.the Major's here: he's all the ragethe man of honour and of sense.the man of reverie and reflection,The manor house, in deep seclusion,The man's a boor; his brain is missing,the man she feared and idolized --the man who laid her brother low.the marriage plans were all exactthe matchwood chatters as it lights.the meaning of an epigraph,the men confront them, face to face:the merchant's up, the cabman's walkingthe millions of two-legged creationthe moderns rage against the old.the modesty of her condition,the modish Record Office clerksthe moon; but in the darkened glassthe moon in its azure of air.the morning after, a surprisethe morning light no longer lingers,The morning star will soon be shining,the mountain maiden, my ideal,the murmuring Nereids recite,the murmur where the streamlet played...the Muses' lofty arts and fashions,Then, after midday he'll be waking;then afterwards, alone, at ease,then, country evening fast arriving,Then, crying, they untwined my plait,Then doors are opened, Lensky enters,then dress...the needle, never had she lingeredthe neighbour... you must tell the bratThe nervous-tragical reaction,the Neva.the new ballet he should be at.the new moon, horned, on her left side,then from his cabinet he'll passthen from the Muse there came revival:Then gradually upon sensation,then he began to talk once morethen he'd implore a declaration,then, help me God, she caterwauls:then he presents her with the scroll.then I'd have looked for you aloneThe night has many stars that glitter,the nightingale's begun to sing.the nightly luminaries climb.Then in return for all this twaddle,Then, in the backwoods, far from rumourthen in the study's quiet setting,then know that your reproving finger,then later slyly he'd revile themthen Lensky moved his pawn, and took,then liking grew, then every daythen night comes on; the moon's patrollingthe noise their rustic wheels projected --then, on the last page, the suggestion:then on the leaves of recollection,The north wind blows, the clouds are driving --Then our Automedons are flashing,Then, plunged in the housekeeper's day,then quickly something changed all this:then quietly at last says she:Then send your grandson with this letterthen, stepping nearer, Eugene said:then sudden fear attacked Tatyana...then suddenly she's off, and thereThen Tanya hears of the decision.then to the altar, to be crowned.Then verdicts from her husband's quartetThen what resulted from the meeting?Then with a half-ethereal splendour,the occupations of the morning.the odious bear still grunts and lumbers.The old dame had no thought of scouringthe old dame wept her daughter's parting,The olden days, I want to hear...the one who killed the youthful poet?The one you love's the younger daughter?the only face to shake and passthe other, jugs of applejack,the pages of some dull review,the pain, the grief, the marrow-freezingthe pangs with which his heart was troubled,the party waits. Seized with an illnessthe peaceful Muses' devotee,The peasants there have wealth abounding,the pensive Dryads' hiding-ground.the pillars of the turnpike-gate;The place where Eugene loathed his leisureThe ploughman there delights to doze,The poet's dead... already thoughthe poet's heart found full expression,the poet's only theme is I.the poet struck down by his friend!the potholes make the coach unsteady.the prejudices of the ages,the prince bring up his own relationthe prince looks at him, and replies:The princess, sitting peaked and wan,the programme of his daily round.The protocol is all one wishes:the quintessential reaction(the reader thinks the rhyme is lilies:there any friend of harmless pleasureThere came a murmur, for a fleetingthere caustic Shakhovskóy came inthere Didelot crowned himself with glory:there gathered at the coffin-sidethe regimental band is coming,There, just in front of all that swarm,the relative merits of the classic ode and the romantic elegy.there'll be a fight. For that I giveThere many pages keep the impressionthere never fails a kindly greeting,There once I too strolled back and forth:there's a small window shining in it,there's crashing, rumbling, pounding, trotting,There's din of parting now that rages,there's far too much of contradiction,There sings the nightingale, spring's lover,there's no absurdity as such,there's no ignoble tale that seemsthere's not a word she's understood;there's nothing can employ her anguish,There's powdery snow up to her knees;There's vacancies in plenty there.there's yap of pugs, and laughs, and bustle;There too, he honoured, hotly weeping,there waited for us both the malicethere was a general furtive chatter,There was a period when cold-bloodedThere was a pine-branch downward strayingthere was a softness in his glance:there was no trace to be detectedThere was -- --, so notoriousthere, where the coulisse entrance went,There, with epigrammatic neatness,There you're entirely sure of findingthere сzerov shared the unwillingthe ring of marriageable girls --the rogue has got a finger frozen:the rosy bloom that glowed so newlythe rosy sealing-wafer's dryingthe roundest face that you've set eyes on,the Russian for le comme il faut.the Russian N, like N in French;The rustic sage, in that apartment,the sad beginnings of his lifethe safest place for declarations,the same as any other day.the samovar of evening boiled,the season which is such a bore --the secret of her husband's measure,the secrets of the grave, the pagesThese days I'm finding even gladness,These figures from the world of seeming,These lines and the first twelve lines of stanza XLV were discardedthese words are not of Russian stock:the shades of night within their keepingthe shady wood, the talking stream;the shepherd, as he used to do,the shepherd sings of Volga's fishingthe silence when our talk had ceased!the simple faith of olden daysthe simple legend -- then a hazethe skyblue eyes, the flaxen tresses,The sky breathed autumn, time was flowing,the sky is brilliant in its blueThe sky is clear, the earth is frozen;the snow from all surrounding hills;the sober head, detesting eachthe solitude of woods and tillage,The Song of the Girlsthe source's chattering voice is heard;the spring invites you to the landthe spring of honour, and the pinthe stars, the moon -- celestial lightThe storm is over, dawn is paling,the strain of Tasso's octave-rhyme!the strangeness of her habitation,the strophe over which I slaved;the subtle spouse was just as loyal --the sufferings of tempestuous passion;the sumptuous palais shines out;the swarm, the glittering mob that presses,the talk of guests when they appear;the tears in stream pour down her cheeks.the third day, wood and hill and grazingthe thirst for work, the lust for learning,the thought of volatile renown.the thought sank in, and penetrated:the thoughts of my two anchorites.the threshold's thronged, wet-nurses call,the tighter we can stretch above themthe time to go has long since passedthe tolerant Evgeny heard --the toll of those borne off by fate!The tomcat, mannered and affected,the tongue of love and of Petrarch.the total ownership of woods,the towers of whitestone Moscow beamingthe trail the youthful poet followedthe tusks, the corpse's finger-nails,the two foes stand with eyes downcast.The two old ladies kiss and cry;the uncertainties within his heart;the units are ourselves alone.the universe is all perfection;the unmetric verses of traditionthe untiring city, where you've giventhe unworthy husband through depressingthe urn of perfumed tea, and tippingthe usurers' voracious tribe.the utter virtue of their being,the vales dry out, grow brightly printed;the valley's dark. The forest landsthe vital force gives them the shootThe vote was passed without demur.the war, the snowfall, and his wife.The week before Lent.the whole thieves' kitchen flies asunder,the wild rose blooms, and in the covertthe wilful fancies of the heart.the wine-addict adores the cup:the winter's ways are smooth as glass.the world and all its works, she weptThe World found this enough to treatThe world of fashion, prone to flatter,the world's éclat, its thunder-roll,they all have richly earned a pension;they all have swarmed into the hall,they all still keep their old impress:The yard was bursting with dependants;they buried Uncle, congregatedThey buzz -- but then all talk's suspended --they'd just enrage it with their dart.they don't deserve what they inspirethey'd settled that some years before.the year, his age, then: may your rest,The years incline to gloom and prosing,The years would pass; no longer youthful,they find her somewhat unexpected,they fluff her curls out in the fashion,they heap up silver with a spade;they kill the zest of rhymed composing,They laugh. The guests begin arriving.they leave their shores and fly away.they managed to disperse the pack.they met on horseback; quickly they< ...... >they needed kvas like air; at tablethey nudged Tatyana, and each mutteredthe young hostess, towards whom eachthe youthful lover once againthe youthful votary of rhymethe youth of those past days in linethey praise the Father of the world.they're all chained up in different fetters,they're on the dance-floor, waltzing, spinning.they're plunging, whirling, all but squatting.They're settled in; and crawling, sliding,they rise and ripen and fall dead:they shared their days in deed and heart,They should be forced to read in Russian,they shove each plate, and every chair,They sing; unmoved by their sweet-soundingthey sit, they cross themselves for grace.They take her too to the Assembly.they talk of her, of how and whether:they took offence at this, and brokeThey've missed Eugene's completed etching.they've moved around and been reseated;they were her only food... and sothey while away the morning's calm.They will receive us with delight.thickly the exclamations fly.thinking: he loved me, and in strifethirty-two steps with great precision,this angel, this proud devil, tell,this child of luxury and delight.This dear, still world I must forswearthis denizen of the coulissesthis Grandison of hers was splendid,this is the one! Ah, ever stronger,This is Vladimir Lensky's gravethis modish whirl, this social story,This Russianized version of  the Greek Agatho  is  elephantine andthis soul that glowed with virgin fire.This time I think you've been reduced tothis very day I'd gladly give,this was our heroes' conversationthis was the science of that passionThis wearisome perambulationThis work of the profoundest learningThis world's so vacuous that it's gotThose friends, those friends! it is, I fear,those monkeys of the good old days:those walks amid the gloom and calmthose words where love, without condition,Though belles had lost his adoration,though cold I am and sad; in sleepthough he's unknown, there's no suggestionthough I'll come back to him, yet clearlyThough long since Eugene's disapprovalthough Menelaus, in Helen's name,though some support it with good grace).thought, day and night, and thought againthough there he's no more to be found,thoughts of a girl, or as the moonthought them a pointless peccadillo;though we... don't shine in any way,though what's romantic here I simplythough years ago I used to lookthou, my Svetlana!threats, vows, and simulated fears,three carts -- traditional procession --three pairs of handsome ones -- yet thereThree whole hours, at the least accounting,threw Eugene at her feet -- she stirred,thrives to this moment, in a stationThronged by adorers, I've detectedthrough baseness of the soul that he,through distant regions of the heart...through gloom and mist; and there came streamingthrough heaven's expanse serenely flying,through him is sweetness' self. In grumblingthrough it they're known to me, and kin.throughout the boredom of the hours --Throughout their life, so calm, so peaceful,through the back porch runs out and fliesThrough the tight ranks -- aristocratic,throw meadows into muddy rout,thumps as the balls are pressed insidetill he at last was summoned downtill Moscow, meekly on its knees,till now our language -- proud, God knows --till then had been dispersed and wasted --Time races, and she's been forgettingtimes were when I was sharp and bold:times were, when master's least suggestion...Time was, he'd been the wittiest ever,time was, in evening hours of leisure,time was when morning's breeze was swayingto aim, at steady, even paceto all that's trivial and inane?to all the most adored actrices,to all this tattle, yet at heartto ask of you that you transcendto a soirée. My God! to her!...to Aÿ's vintage in the sequelTo batten down their indignationto battle further with my passion;To be a butt for the maliciousto bee and butterfly unknown.to bellow out: she's mine, she's mine.to be mentioned in so offhand a way.to be respected all through life:to be the bride I'd call my own.to blow his brains out, but in steadto boom, to flash across the sky,to bring across Lepage's mortalto burn -- and then by force of reasonto captivate, and then to fly.to catch the eye and to attract.to clasp your knees, and at your feetto come back to the hall aloneto comfort her in all her woes,to cool my glances and my tongue,to crack between them; for a whileToday a mental fog enwraps us,Today he promised he'd be here,Today it's turn and turn about.Today... the sad memorial's lonely,to demonstrate some signs of reason:to do them all is easy game.to drain its beaker down, nor thoughtto drain, on credit, bottles three.to draw a breath, around her staringto dreaming given up unduly,to drive the swooning senses mad;to drop all that old-fashioned mumming;to drown the hiss of modish wives.to each and every raving feastto eat and drink, then separatedto encase herself inside a layerto ensure that till next time our imageto Eugene all was new and thrilling;to Eugene; nineteen to the dozen,to Eugene's letter, word for word.to Evgeny. Oh, God, she'd never...to expose to Moscow fops and Circesto face him now I feel too frail...To face society's derisionto fashion's absolute dictate,to feasts and fun this winter past;to freedom, softness and enjoyment:to fresh grandparents every day.to garden walks, as arm in armto gasp, and on a bench to sink.to gentlemen on every sidetogether they arrived, and noneto give you honest explanation.to happen long ago, dear readers,To harmless idleness devoted,to hear him howl: that's me! You'll getto heart. And in his misted gazeto hear what latest modes require,to help her from the other side;to her flower-garden, to her novels, --to her glass porch; pursues her roundto hide a hope, to make a showto high renown my doleful story,to his disputing and his cursing;to his mysterious tree the snaketo his Tatyana, yes, he's racing,to hit the target: thigh or brain.to hope that even once a weekto horror-stories told at nightto infuriate a clumsy foe;to institute a new regime.to it the people's blessing neverto kiss Armida's lips, or seekto kissing or caressing fatherto know the audience hears his voice.to know you, swooned, and in a secondTo...? Larina. Tatyana? never!to lie down at her feet like slaves!to life and hope with just a glance --to life grew colder than the dead.to lift her skirt up; still she's flying,to lift his pistol up. A spanto liven with a silk atourto look like sad romanticism."Tomcat calls  Kit"  -- a song  foretelling marriage.  Pushkin'sto meet a black monk, or if crossingto meet his thirsty lips... What daze,to meet the unhappy poet, skippedto me her best in-quarto tome,To me, Onegin, all this gloryto me so simply, with the firesTo me, unsmiling lips bring terror,tomorrow just like yesterday.to Moscow settled in a trice.to mourn for Russia's gloomy savour,To my astonishment I've seen her,to my young days, it's time I turnedto nobody except a wizenedtoo faint to stir a further pace:took her to his estate, where she,to Olga's face, he whispered lowtoo long, against my inclination,too long he's hoaxed us high and low...too pale, too thin, but on the wholetoo weak to change, I'm staying vicious,to pass for an affected freak,to pass for cultured in our ranks.to pass the evening. No? then totto pass the time was Eugene's theme:to pine away from passion's thirst,to play with a dishevelled tress,to pranks and jokes of earlier date.To private tastes we each subscribe:to put on chains for him, and steadyto puzzle out with some precisionto rains, and flax, and the stockyard.to raise the safety catch and strainTo reading from this odd collectionto reasoned talk, no dull hearsay,torment of pride? And why's he come?to roar of banquets, din of brawling,to save the honour of our landto scorn the men with whom he deals;to see life as a ritual play,to see my kin, and in the endto see the grave, and shed a tear.to see you, faithfully to follow,to sing of others must implyto sleep some black and empty dreams;to smother her dear feet with kissing.to sob out prayer, complaint, confession,to speak; believe me: of my shameto spoil loose paper by the ream;to steal away her neighbour's lightto stem the bloodstream's wild outburst;to tales that young moustachios tell.to talk as if with heart unwrung,to talk of this and that, but thenTo talk, to general conversationto talk to her, but language died.to Tanya, all's an empty show.to the beginning of our days.to the circle of our dance.to the complacent and the null;to the empty homestead made her way,to the first meanings of his flute.to the hero that she'd adopted.to the Larins' had caused a spoutto the princess, in his weak hand,touches her hand, or throws a furtouches obliquely, but with speed,to undertake their resurrection,to us, though, not exactly new.to vice, while virtue got its crown.towards his stall, the pedlar's hawking;towards the Larins' and arrivingtowards the simple urn beneath;toward the neighbouring valley's river.to wave farewell the household waitsto where he came to her that timeto which so oft we've dedicatedto whisper it her inmost prayer.To whom do you, from all the trainto whom, in a fine flow of preaching,to whom your hearts are dedicated,to wiser words and deeds, and learnedto wreak, by stirring Lensky's ire,to wreck a maiden's sleep with fable,to your loved ones? They do maintaintracked him, and put him in duress,tradition still keeps my respect.tranquillity, and solitude --translated only the first part of the famous verse. Pushkin's note.tread the calm, settled path they've chosen...treated his lessons as a ploy.treaties of nations long departed,tribute of tears, applause's shrilling,tries out the ice with cautious tread,Triquet, ingenious poet, daresTriquet sings, out of tune. Loud clappingTrue, scorn should punish and should bridletrue, with a pistol he could shattertrusted her without hesitation,Tsimlyansky wine, between the meattumbled and whirled and twisted quaintlytwin lamps of serried coupés throwtwirls the other slowly as she pleases,two cupboards, one divan, a table,two hearts, a torch, and a nosegay;Two hearts there are perhaps that keeptwo or three novels where our latertwo pines have tangled at the root;two poles that ice had glued like plastertwo sisters who'd received the initial,two verses of the Aeneid.Two weeks the matchmaker was plyingunanimous exchange of looksUncle, in bed, and near to dying,unconsciously he let it mountunder the table's linen shield,undressed, by candlelight selectedunfathomable to the mind;Unforced, as conversation passed,unhesitating from her tongue,unloved, and friendless, and estranged.unnoticed, in unseeing style,unseen, already you were dear,unspeaking, too, but stretched out thereunswerving friend, correct landowner,until Bréguet's unsleeping chimeuntil the dawn beneath her pillow.until the grave by your strong hand:until the tombstone; there one dayuntil this day, a lady's loveuntirable, at sound of drum:untouched by envy's bitter smarting,untouched by trace of inhibition,upon her feverish tongue; the slipupon her lips the breathing dies,upon it, and with head down-bentupon the side of the distaff --up the hillside at breakneck pace;Up to the porch our hero's driven:up your accounts, and raging, toping,urbane betrayals, and the chillinguse cunning silence as a screen,used in times past to ring a pealusing overt or covert rules.(vain twaddle, fables of the ages,value the hero of my tale,vanishes with his load of dread.Vasily Levshin (-), writer on gardening and agriculture.VVVverdicts of vanity the bleak,very briefly -- to a  controversy between different literary  cliques  aboutVesper is met by crow of cock --vexation? vainness? heavens above,VVVVIVIVIVIVIVI(VI, IX,) Xvillages flickered far and near,VIVIVIVIVintage , the year of the Comet.visit the family, what d'you say?VIVIVIVIVladimir drops, hand softly slidingVladimir Lensky. Quick, let's dine!Vladimir Lensky, whose creatorVladimir's challenge found expressionVladimir shuts the book, for writingVladimir to this casual mentionVladimir, wealthy and good-looking,VVVVVVVVWait, I'll present you -- but you banishwakened at the same hour of nightwalked homeward round the kitchen garden;Walking her horse in introspectionWalking? The country that you roamwanders in a distracted waywas an enchanting country nook:was asked around as quite a catch --was brought there by a huckster whowas by forebodings much oppressed.was far from happy with his role.was finding leisure's vacuum cruel;was Göttingen, his alma mater,was his absorption in their sense.was his; we'd both drunk passion's chalice:Was it for you that I becameWas it not in such sweet employmentwas it not you, dear apparition,Was it to no effect that he,was just created for the part.was one who raged and raged again,was quite beyond his wit, we found.Was she the Tanya he'd exhortedwas still mysterious and enticing --was stripped away, and mists encroachingwas that calm brow of one who swooned.was the first thing that Olga said.was the sad poet not confoundedwas undiscovered to that day.was younger still, but at that stagewatched sun and clock -- then by such labourswatch for your smile, and catch your gazewatch the games we maidens play.We all meandered through our schoolingWe all resemble more or lesswe'd better hasten to the ball,wedlock for us would be abhorrent.We each enjoy a special hobby,We each have enemies in this world,we have to cherish and admirewe'll draw it deeper in our net;we'll go with her to that deliciousWell, I must make a frank confession,Well, I won't hold you up or bore you;we'll keep love's price appreciating,Well-known restaurateur. Pushkin's note.we'll talk, and talk, and then we'll showWell, what? the neighbour says, he's killed.Weltered in tears, and sorely smarting,We must confess that taste deserts uswere all the law that I would use;were chanted, I remember when --were from his vision quite withdrawn.were picking berries from the bough,were placed across the gulf to makewere served in order of their rank.were you in love when you were young?we sometimes like to hear againWe too shall find our hour is waiting;We've many neighbours round about;we visit them, or without failwe weep for the young lover's end,we were swept off, in reverie's haze,What ails him? he's in some strange daze!What breasts! What soul!... We'll go one daywhat came from this unlooked-for meeting;what can one do? as said above,What cause has won me your attention?What do I want? what am I after,what dream accounts for her distraction?What else? Quite drunk with love's illusion,Whatever for caprice of spendingWhatever in this rough confectionwhatever you may need, just call...What fate is my tomorrow brewing?what feelings would assume controlwhat flowers of spring display your dint?What folly! and what retribution!What, Grandison? oh, Grandison!What happened? Though his eyes were reading,what have your wits to do with me?what he can do. Nabokov.what held me was my predilection,what holds her in profound reflection,What if your pistol-shot has smittenWhat in the world is more distressingWhat? Invitations? Yes, three houseswhat is he? Just an apparition,what it's transported to our shorewhat kind of thought, what observation,what London calls, with humble dutywhat moves along the hidden waysWhat nonsense, Tanya! in those otherwhat occupied his chafing powerswhat odes Vladimir might have written --What of it? it's euphonious, pleasant,What of it? Nothing. I'm just sendingWhat of them, Tanya? I was able,what play will he present this week?What power enslaves you, with your seemingWhat scorn I see in the expressionwhat's in them? All this loud parading,what's more, I loved you; but my hunger,What sort of roses, in your notion,what store of riches it imparts!what traps he'd set him, with what maliceWhat trifling could be more complete?what was it in your heart it foundwhat wings our first successes gave!when Bréguet's chime is heard proclaimingWhen comes my moment to untether?When Eugene's turn for salutationWhenever nyanya had collectedwhen, from behind the doorway, hiddenwhen galloping at headlong pacewhen he arrived; not in the slightest:when hourly we ourselves betrayed it,When I defected from their unionwhen, in pale sky, the stars' processionwhen in the park, in the alléewhen little notes come on a tray.when night patrol's a perilous calling;when not quite eighteen years of age.when, on the plain, green herbs are massed,when our sublimest aspiration,when our Zaretsky met his eyes.When out to burst a rival's bubble,When progress and ameliorationwhen shall I start on my escape?when suddenly I saw this treasurewhen, utterly worn out by rhyming,when we begin to talk of verse);When we draw a fellow in,when we see him from afar,When we've retreated to the banner"When will the devil come for you?"where admonitions are pronounced,where are distress, commiseration?where are the reveries this time,Where are you? come -- and my own rightwhere a sharp nail has made a dent.where can we find your equal?where civil treacheries are rife,where did that glum eccentric go,where dwelt this child of inspiration,where every day a bloodstained shadewhere fate had fixed our confrontation,where flows a little glittering brook,where folded arms are tightly pressed.where her security's complete.where he was master of his college,where, in a cab, and furious hurry,where in the heart of silence rangWhere is the fire that once ignited,where master used to sit alone.where nowadays I'm soundly trounced,where scribbling friends have interjectedwhere shall he go, my rogue, my hearty?where (standard rhyme) are youth and fleetness?where's the high aim, the ardent sensewhere Tanya now confronts Eugene.where the prize-boy of fashion's collegeWhere to, God knows. The trail is dead.where two old pinetrees stand united:where you were born as well, I think,whether from heaven or from hell,whether it goes careering past,Whether the arrow has my number,which has recalled, without precision,which held him silently subjected,which I myself won't praise or blamewhich, listening with some condescension,Which neighbour, dear? My head becameWhich one comes first? It's just the samewhich Ovid sang, for which the bard,which smilingly your friend, supportedwhich with a blush he leaves unread.while a mazurka holds the crowd;while dear Tatyana's youth grows dimmer:while floors would split from crash of heel,while in the hut a girl is singing;While Lensky'd long been meditatingwhile, marmot-like, he hibernated --while men, all sombre, all the same,while odes have high and noble aims...while Petersburg's already rousing,while roar of violins contriveswhile serious topics were disputing,while she's from top to toe surveyed;While under the connubial bannerwhispered by heart a note addressedwhisper of breeze announces morning,whisper repeated to the crone.whispers some ballad of the hour,whither does all my yearning tend?Whither, oh whither are ye banished,who all his life would garner praisewho can combine it with the freeWho could have looked the poet better,who'd sit, and at the end of playwho early died as die the brave --who else? -- the hero of our novel!whoever you may be, a friend,who, in good time, would calmly getWho in that flash could not have reckonedwho in the country spends her summer,who in the dark came flashing throughWho in the princess for that secondWho is there who will truly measurewho late at night are whirled awaywho'll clap an entrechat, or scoffWho'll never fault our vices, orWho'll sow no calumnies around us?who loves you more than I, let's seewhom shall we never find a bore?Whom then to credit? Whom to treasure?whom thirty centuries have adored!who never learnt how dreamers babble;who never scorned the social rabble;who on a deuce, that famous cheat,Who on earth is he? not... our hero?Whose fond attentions will astound us?Whose glance, provoking inspiration,whose heart experience has cooledwhose heart on dreams was wont to thrive,whose kindly hand will ruffle downwhose memory will preserve for mewhose serfs are miserably thin;who sets me snoring then and there --Who's not disgusted by cajoling,who swaggers in with the reply.Who taught her all this mad, slapdash,Who taught her an address so tender,Who? that fat general? Tanya cried.who walks with sorrow, and with danger,who was it that you dreamt about?Who would have thought it? What an age!why, at the thought, my husband's motherWhy did you visit us, but why?why fight what's known to be decisive?Why have you gone all pale and queasy?Why is Tatyana guiltier-seeming?Why not? I'd choose the other quarterwhy, Olga's younger, and she's bedded.Why, pretty one, you're up already!Why, Tanya, what...? All's dull and trifling.Why then do you pursue me now?wild as a forest deer, and fearful,Wildly the fearful laughter pealed;will anger you in its confession.will blossom into splendid highways:will disappear as fast as smoke:will find the ice elude his gripwill give you a complete reply.will halt her horse and, gripping tightlywill in a flash decide his lot.will in my soul be hushed and dying.will loyally discharge its duties,will reach, and past the tomb's compoundwill the benighted reason smile,window-panes, departed  female owner (the soul being  feminine  in Russian),wine of the Comet fills the cup;Winter!... The countryman, enchanted,wished him to come and say farewell.wishes his madness to the devil,with a blunt cue for the duration,with a consumption, they've relied.with a first click, the catch is tried.with all our hearts, and who requirewith amber pipes from Tsaregrad;with an avowal just as artless;with an obeisance I'll hand over...with any torture so exquisitewith a quick look perusing lightlyWith a sharp epigram it's pleasantwith a small tray and a teacup.with a Venetian maiden whowith balm of prayer my torn and rendedwith bended knees a windmill dances,with brilliant conquests by the shower,with broods of children of all ages,with bursts of passion from the heart,with careful schemes of decorationwith care Zaretsky stows awaywith cause that I've recalled them here.with censure -- I've done all to earn it!with charming forefinger she tracedwith combs, and steel utensils servingwith comedies of swarm and din;with cranium aching fit to split;with custom, love would fade away;with deeds; that dunces now and thenwith deep emotion looks aboutwith deep emotion through and through,with demoiselles of riper age;with draughts from love's enticing flask,with each nuance of wintry glow:with Eugene frozen where he stood.with Eugene proved a tempting prize.with every different kind of rabble...with every sort of home possession:with eyes aflame Onegin riseswith eyes of love, with greed to swallowwith fire from every cross of gold.with fond caress? whose adorationwith foppery and too much starch,with fright, she hears the approaching bear;with gown and slippers; tearing hurry,with grave goodbyes to the bereaved,with Guillot; while pourparlers lastwith heart that's grown unused to praise,with her own forests and her meads...with his forefathers would seem better;within her bosom to abate,with irresistible refulgence,with jealousy beyond all measurewith lampions studded all aboutwith lies and jokes that packed a punch:with lines to mark where they were sleeping...with lively and pellucid look,with love and comfort in your meaning,with me to see an alien strand;With mounts from home, or postal station,with mournful sound the secret shadewith neighbour Lensky, the deceased.with old Anisia. The next daywith Olga, all have pierced her soul;with our Mamas, and a sensationwith our poor girl was kind and good;without a goal on which to fix,without an elegiac frill,without a trace of spite or plot,without a word Tatyana leantwithout preliminary feelerWithout romance, or false insistence,without surprise or rage... his laden,with parks and mansions, open up.with passion and with shrewd obliquenesswith perturbation and with worry;with pleasure on his vengeful act.with pots and basins out of mind,with puzzled and confused regard...With reason, too: for when he'd vettedwith recent fortune, vainly waitedwith sabre's slash, and bullet's blast.with scorn to make my world a hell.with sheer enchantment fills her cup!with shelves of books deployed for action,with sighs unconsciously regretful.With spelling scrambled to perdition,with spinning noise and senseless flashingwith storm and tumult in his head,with such a blissful, brief infection --with tears, in quarters of the maids:with tenderness he'd watched and notedWith that, in tears, and quite worn out,with the grand general in her wake --with the pink glow the snows assumewith the resounding chime of glass.with the unmistakeable sideviewwith The Well-Meaner on her knee?with this the hero of my tale:with thoughts of him in ceaseless round.with three roan horses in a linewith Tolstoy's brush, or decoratedwith trees decked in their silvery kit,with tufts of snow; and through the liftedwith visions of enchanted night,with which XXX ends, is Pushkin's own contribution, a sample as it were ofwith whom your thoughts are so obsessed --With womankind, the less we love them,with work at home; but when he'd gone,with years no more to meet our gaze?with young Semyónova, and therewith your good offices, and sowon't benefit these guts of mine.won't even cross their minds by stealth...word on his lips, and thought: it's sheerwords mispronounced, thoughts ill-expressedworks where contemporary manWorse luck, Larina crawled; the employmentwould be allied to him by fate;would bless the form his fortune took.would cause widespread remark and tattle,would fill Tatyana from afarwould have been all that we required!would have been spared this laceration.would have divined the tender, shrinkingwould Hymen bring us -- blooms that mightwould launch into self-sacrifice;would leave her dithering and tossing.would not have recognized againwould on those evenings guess the fatewould say goodbye and drive away,would settle, on the morrow morning,would talk, keep silent, laugh, then frown --wound that had seared my Tanya's heart!Written at Odessa. Pushkin's note.Written in Bessarabia. Pushkin's note.wronged always in disgraceful fashion --XXXXXIXIXIXIXIXIXIXIXIXIXIXIXIXIXIVXIVXIVXIVXIVXIVXIVXIXXIX(XI, XIV,) XVXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXLXLXXLXLIXLIXLIXLIXLIXLIXLIXLIXLIXLIXLIVXLIVXLIVXLIVXLIVXLIVXLIXLIXXLIXXLIXXLIXXLIXLXLXLXLXLXLXLXLVXLVXLVXLVXLVXLVXLVXLVIXLVIXLVIXLVIXLVIXLVIXLVIXLVIXLVXLVIXLVXLVXLVXLXXXXXXXXVXVXVXVXVXVXVIXVIXVIXVXVIXVIXVIXVIXVIXVIXVIXVIXVIXVIXVIXVIXVXXVXVXVXVXV(XV, XVI,) XVXXXXXXXXXXXXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIXXIVXXIVXXXXIVXXIVXXIVXXIVXXIVXXIVXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXVXXVXXVXXVXXVXXVXXVXXVXXVXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVIXXVI... ...XXVIXXVIXXVIXXVXXVXXVXXVXXVXXVXXVXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXIVXXXIVXXXIVXXXIVXXXIVXXXIXXXIVXXXIVXXXIVXXXIXXXIXXXIXXXXIXXXXIXXXXIX(XXXIX,) XL(XXXIX, XL, XLI,) XLXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXV< XXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVIXXXVI(XXXVI) XXXIX(XXXVI,) XXXIXXXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVXXXVyears back, to call up many a fable;yes, even there its triumph grows.yes, focus on them your lorgnette,yes, in that spring-time, in low-lyingYes, spleen was waiting like a sentry,yes, these were our forefathers' ways,Yes, youth divines, in giddy madness,yet a capricious inclination,yet, as each rule has its exception,yet dared not trust what I could see.Yet -- fear itself she found presentedyet floods of talk around the town...yet he'd back you through thick and thin:yet he fell out of love at lastYet hissing froth deals a malicious,yet how I wish that I might raiseYet once for him her thoughts had whirled,yet people's malice and suspicionYet sweeter far, at such a time,Yet Tanya's note made its impressionYet the mazurka keeps todayyet, truthfully and not in chaff,you acted well, that dread occasion,you age, and life's just grief and sadness...you called there twice, and since then tookYou criticize Moscow? why make such a fussyou'd made appearance in my dreaming;You'd never class her as a beauty;you'd not so much as know the name,You don't see what to do? that's funny:you drink the magic draught of yearning,you find the country godforsaken;you gave me such a shocking fright!you help him to an honoured fateYou husbands, deeply I respect you!you in my arms on gingerbread?you kept your friendship with our friend:You know him, do you? Yes and no.you know I'm hard to comprehend...You know, it's true, how I attended,you learn life's sweetness, and with thisyou left no steps that could be tracked:You'll love again, but you must teachyou'll never leave me to my fate.you'll read: here's Pradt, here's Walter Scott!you'll recognize him soon enough, --you loved the opulent contactyou made me drunk as one could ask!you newborn work, and like a winnerYoung ladies jump for future blisses...young poet, be for ever blest!young Tanya first appeared to me,young traitresses by the platoon,you object of my guileless ditties!You pile one eclogue on another!your advent swamps me in its flood!your battles, lawless and atrocious,your chorus, is it dead for ever?your cold discourse, were less unkind --Your curiosity is burningyour dashing one, is she surviving?you're all in fever... heavens above.your early life, unlock your tongue:You're ill, God have you in his keeping,You're married? No idea whatever...You're off? why, there's a poet for you!you're really going? Well, I'm sad.you're sure to find her portrait in it:You're wrong. But what I wonder atyour feet, to pale and waste... what rapture!your grief would fail to touch my heart,your heart some self-restraint; for eachyour heels will squash the ladies' toes! >your heroes, raging and ferocious,Your horse, blunt-shoed and all unwary,your icy look, your stern dissuasion,your loved one, honourable reader!your matchlessness, to seek to captureYour modish world, I'll do without it;your molten gold, your charmed infusion;your night of fretting's left no trace!your presence aches, and in my blood!your pride, some answer, or in truthyourself too long from social life.your Tanya's image in your mind,your tears would flow -- but your emotion,your words, and in my soul to exploreyour Zeus, your Cypris, your whole bandyou see the two in uniform...you see, with tears and incantationyou see your fated tempter stand.you sought -- tumultuous recollection,youthful, who ripened in his time,youth is a fever; we must spareyouth's choice, the flower of French cuisine:youth which has nothing to regret,you too have seen on Neva's brink.you took an honourable part --You too, mamas, I pray attend it,You too, prime beauties in your flowerYou've guessed before it all began:you've made so many secret rhymes,you've paid insanity its due.you were the first ones he forswore;you won't find that quite so much catch...You wrote to me, and nothing spokenYou yawn, Onegin? As I'm used to.Zaretsky bit his lip. EugeneZaretsky draws up a conventionZaretsky, engineer-in-waiting,Zaretsky rose without discussion;Zaretsky watched, and stood there grinning.Zarétsky, sometime king of brawlsZhukovskyZizi, my crystal and my gem,